Hello and welcome back. 
What type of information and images can we use for image and video segmentation? 
In particular, I want to discuss a bit about Edges and Regions. 
Let's just look at one very nice image of a flower. 
we are going to assume that we want to segment out this flower. 
We want to separate the flower from the background. 
There are certain regions like here, where there's a very clear boundary. 
So we have this cast for example, edges and gradients. 
Remember, the gradient that we represent in this form. 
Which is nothing else than the vector of the derivative in the image, derivative 
of the image in each direction, derivative of the image in the Y 
direction. we talk about how to implement that a few 
weeks ago. For example, a derivative in the X direction, we could do with a 
simple filter of plus one, minus one and minus one. 
Now, if we take these derivatives and we compute the magnitude of their vector, 
because there are very clear differences in both sides of the flower in this 
region. Very clearly, that will help us to 
separate the flower from the background. And we are going to see very often using 
the gradient as part of our image segmentation algorithms. 
On the other hand, we see here. We might also get gradients, but we don't 
want these gradients to be part of the segmentation. 
There are differences inside the flower that we don't want them to appear. 
So, clearly we can use this borders, these edges, or this gradient. 
We don't want to use the ones inside and that makes our life a bit more difficult. 
But it also tells us that we are not really looking for a uniform region 
inside the flower. If we were to put that as a constraint in 
our segmentation, we will not get very far, because inside the flower things 
change a lot. We are actually looking for big 
differences between the flower and the background. 
And therefore, edges are going to be very important to segment this flower. 
As we're going to see in the future videos. 
But let us look at that slightly different image. 
Look at now at this image. We clearly see a ball here, although 
they're basically, let me just get the pen, they're basically no edges here. 
We see the ball but we don't see any edges, but we understand the shape, so 
here we're not going to be able to use edge information, they're no edges if we 
were to compute the gradient in this region here. Any pixel here we will try 
to compute the gradient, that gradient will be zero or very low and won't help 
us to find a border, to find a object of interest. 
On the other hand, we could use shape, we could use regions, 
okay? So we could try to understand that this 
is kind of a uniformed region, kind of a uniformed region. 
And actually we can use that fact to basically help us obtain the 
segmentation. Let's just see the edges of this image to 
further illustrate that edges won't help in this case. 
So here, I took the green channel of the color image that we just saw and I 
computed, in this case I used MATLAB. I computed edges. 
So we see some spurious edges. Those don't bother us too much, we 
learned in the past how to get rid of them. 
For example by pre-filtering the image, removing the noise before. 
We get nice edges here, but no edges here, this is a tiny edge because there 
is probably a very weak boundary here, but no edges here. 
So we will need other types of information in order to be able to 
segment this ball out of the background. Looks very simple, but edges are not 
sufficient. What I want to show you in the next 
videos is how to incorporate multiple sources of information. 
First, we're going to start in the next video with half transform that's going to 
help us to integrate shape that we know. If we are looking for a line we can put 
that into the segmentation or the detection algorithm. 
If we are looking for circle like here, we can incorporate that into the 
algorithm and we do that with the half transform. 
I'll see you in the next video for that, thank you.