Hello, and welcome back. 
I want to discuss now the Mumford-Shah Image Segmentation technique, and I'm 
going to do that with one example. Let's just look at this image. 
We talk that image segmentation means labeling the image. 
We want to label every segment that has some coherence in it with a different 
name, with a different number. One way of doing that is, of course, 
basically, painting that segment with a uniform, or a very smooth grey value. 
And that's the type of stuff that the Mumford-Shah algorithm and technique 
tries to do. Let's just discuss that. 
Here, we have an original image. Don't pay attention to these two for the 
moment. It's going to be very clear in just a few 
seconds. And this is the result of one 
implementation of Mumford-Shah image segmentation. 
So, very rich gray values become just a few smooth segments. 
Looks like almost like quantization when we talk about image compression. 
So, the first part is that we want to approximate the original image by just a 
few segments that are either constant or very smooth. 
Of course, we want an approximation. So, one of the terms that this 
Mumford-Shah needs to include is a penalty from deviating too much from the 
original image. Of course, piece wise smooth, or piece 
wise constant, I could make this whole image wide. 
So, that's one very smooth segment. But it's very far, if I do that, it would 
be very far from the original image. So, one of the things is we have to 
somehow penalize for the difference between these two images. 
For example, the mean square error. We already talk about it very early on in 
this class. So, one penalty is the mean square error. 
We want to get the piece wise smooth version of this image, but not very far 
from it. Now, you might wonder, okay, 
if you're going to penalize for the mean square error, why not to keep the image 
itself? That's very clever, but we don't achieve 
any segmentation. So, how do I know I don't achieve any 
segmentation? Because I'm going to add a term that 
penalizes for having too many boundaries in the segmented image. 
So, these are the regular edges of this image. 
Very strong edges. These are boundaries of the segments that 
we have here. I don't want to have too many. 
I don't want to have all these. I'm going to penalize for the number of 
edges for how many, how much do I pay for having boundaries. 
So that would be another term. I'm going to basically, on one hand, I 
want to penalize for very large differences, and on the other hand, I'm 
going to penalize for edges. So, if you have too much edges, you are 
going to pay a price. Bec, so, if I keep the image as it is, 
I have no error here but I have lot of edges. 
Basically, every pixel becomes a segment, so I'm paying a very large penalty for 
edges. If I have a flat image, I don't pay any 
penalty for edges, but I pay a very high penalty for error. 
And then, I have to do a compromise between these two and that's what 
Mumford-Shah basic concept is, to write formulations that compromise between a 
representation of the image that is too far from the original image. 
We want to simplify representation not too far from the original image, and we 
also don't want to pay a high price and get too many segments. 
Now, there are many ways of doing this. There's some beautiful mathematical 
theory behind different formulations that do this compromise. 
Some theory relates even to compression. You have to compress this image and this 
edges, and then you try to optimize for that, 
yours and my, need to compare for the error. And some very beautiful techniques 
with, in the framework of what's called variation and formulations, and, energy 
formulations really, a lot of very beautiful mathematical theory, which 
actually relates to the mathematical theory that we're going to be discussing 
next week when we talk about geometric differential equations and geometric 
varation of problems. But, 
here's the concept. And very often in image processing, 
you have a concept and the multiple ways of implementing that concept. 
And I want to make sure that you basically learn during this class, the 
concept behind Mumford-Shah. I should also mention to you that this 
concept of approximation and penalty for too many edges applies also beyond image 
segmentation. And people have extended the framework of 
Mumford-Shah type of formulations to image registration and many, many other 
image and video processing problems. Thank you very much. 
See you in the next video.