Hello, and welcome back. 
We actually see inpainting in nature all the time. 
Let me show you some examples. What do you see here? 
You'll probably see a rock, and nothing else than a rock. 
But there's actually something hiding in that rock. 
Let me just show that to you, or at least help you to see it. 
There is actually a fish hiding in that rock. 
You might be able to see it. I hope you do, 
but I'm going to help you. You can see the eyes here, you can see 
the tailfin here. The whole fish is in here. 
Pretty amazing isn't it? That's camouflage, but that's also 
inpainting. The fish has inpainted itself in order to 
get camouflage. It has basically, it's kind of object 
removal in nature. Pretty amazing. We also see that with 
octopuses. I'm going to give you another example of 
how amazing this fish is. This is not a very high quality image, 
but still it's going to illustrate how amazing this fish is. 
The fish was now, not in nature as before, but basically in a very nice fish 
tank, was basically put, an experiment done by Ramachandran and collaborators, 
on top of polka dots. So it's basically a piece of paper or 
basically something that is colored with dots, as we see here. 
It's very interesting that if you have started here, for example, the fish has 
turned around, has created two polka dots. 
In its own body. And once again I apologize for the 
relatively low quality of this image that was scanned from a paper. 
It's just kind of a long process to get it into the computer. 
And it's also turning around to put basically its eyes on top of one of the 
polkadots. So basically the fish is trying to 
("inpaint) himself, trying to camouflage itself so it cannot 
be seen by predators. So we see inpainting in nature, fish, 
octopuses and others. We actually are doing inpainting all the 
time. When you are watching this video, you're 
actually doing in painting. Why is that? 
When we have, when we remember that we learn about the human eye, in the retina, 
in the back of the eye there's a region with no sensors, no sensors at all. 
No cones, no rods. That is kind of the region where the 
sensors basically send the cables back to the brain. 
So there's actually no sensors. So what should happen if you have no 
sensors? We should actually see a hole in the 
visual world, where basically you would be watching this video and there would 
kind of a region of missing information because there are no sensors. 
But the humans are all the time filling in that region by different techniques 
that the visual system does and actually you can do those exercises. 
I took these images from the website that is provided here. 
And the basic idea is that if you manage to fixate. 
Basically if you manage. You stand like a meter away from the 
screen and you manage to fixate the basically a point. 
Like this point here. So you concentrate on fixating your 
visual system into that point. After a while you will see that the sun 
disappears. So you're basically forcing your system 
to not in- paint the region that basically there is no receptors. 
If you don't do that, if you don't fixate, 
you basically see the sun with no problem. 
The exercise is to try to stop the visual system from doing in painting. 
Here is another exercise you could fixate here. 
You might be able to basically pause right now, 
or after we finish this video, you might be able to go back, pause here, 
and then play with your distance to the screen. 
Fixate here, concentrate on fixating that, and you might be able to see, for 
example the ear of Van Gogh disappears, or basically, the sun disappears. 
So you're forcing the visual system not to inpaint. 
Otherwise, we're in painting all the times. 
We don't see those problems that, we don't see holes when we are looking at a 
scene. So these are just examples that we 
actually have image and video inpainting when we're watching at the regular scene 
that's basically our video coming into our eyes. 
Examples of that in nature. So now we're ready to see how the 
computer does in painting. Thank you. 
I will see you in the next video for that.