Hello, and welcome back. 
In this video, what we're going to do, is we're going to show a different technique 
of imaging painting that is based on calculus of variations. 
Instead of starting with a partial differential equation from the very 
beginning, we're going to start with an energy formulation that through the 
Euler–Lagrange is going to be transformed into a differential equation. 
Now, we're going to keep the same concepts that we learned before. 
If we have a region of missing information. 
We're going to try to kind of mold in the continuation of the edges as we represent 
here, and then fill in the color. When I do both of them at the same time, 
as we are going to see in a second, but we want to keep that important concept 
of. Continuing edges and then. 
Letting the color flow in, as we say, as water. 
Actually, why do I say as water? Because some of these equations are very 
related to the same type of mathematical equations that model, the motion of 
fluids and gases in nature. So this analogy of letting the pixel 
values. Flowing like water is not an artificial 
analogy because it is the same type of equations what we are doing here are 
transport equations. So we are going to basically derive a 
variation and formulation that does this type of process. 
Now, let us start by assuming that somebody came and already told us the 
boundaries. Somebody basically say, Hey, I don't know 
really what's happened in there. But here are the boundaries. 
I'm going to extend them for you. And basically, it has given us the 
normalized gradient at every single pixel inside the region that we need to 
inpaint. Remember, the normalized gradient, we 
basically say that theta is the gradient. Divided by its magnitude. 
Now, we have to be a bit careful when the magnitude is zero. 
They say there is no gradient. So, we basically leave that aside for the 
second. So, this is what we were giving. 
Somebody gave us basically the gradient. And if you pluck that here, you get 
gradient square divided by gradient which is equal to gradient. 
And the goal now is to find that image inside the region to be impainted. 
That is consistent with this gradient. And we do that in a variation and 
formulation. We basically are going to optimize for 
the image. In such a way that is consistent with the 
gradient that we were given. That consistency is exactly what we have 
here. When the image holds this, This, this 
becomes zero and then what's inside here is as small as possible. 
Once again the basic idea is you find an image, then when you take its gradient 
and you normalize it you get what was given to you. 
So you look for consistency. And the interval is inside the region to 
be painted and a small band around it. Where, basically we take the information 
to propagate in, and in that band we have the real image, nurtures the even 
gradients, the real image. And that's why, as I said before, you 
basically optimize in the region, and as, in the region to be impainted and a small 
band around it. So, this is your equation. 
You're looking for consistency of the image with basically. 
The gradients that you were given. The Euler-Lagrange of this, is what we 
have, here. That's the Euler-Lagrange of this 
equation and, as we have seen many times, we basically deform the image in time 
according to the Euler-Lagrange and then we go to steady state. 
And we get to steadystate, we basical that the divergence, remember this is for 
divergence of, this vector. We get, basically the divergense of the 
normalize image is equal to the divergence of the, graudience, the 
normalized graudience that we were giving and then we got an image that is 
consistent with the information that we were given. 
That's exactly what we wanted. Now, if we do that, for example for this 
image We basic remove the I. There's no I here. 
We block it. But remember somebody gave us the 
gradients, the normalized gradients which is equivalent to give us basically the 
edges. And then we can recover. 
The grade values are not exactly as we want them. 
We are going to repair that very soon. But you can observe the basic geometry 
here. And that's because somebody gave us 
theta. Somebody gave us the normalized gradient. 
That's a first step. Now, we need to basically take those 
normalized gradients, because in real scenario we don't have nothing in there. 
And here is the complete equation so. [SOUND]. 
Here is what we have before, we had before. 
Somebody gave us theta, we basically recover an image that is consistent with 
theta. This is this term. 
What this term is doing. Is exactly helping us to propagate the 
gradients inside the region to be inpainted. 
I'm going to explain that more in just one second. 
Again the integral is as before in this same region and A, B and C are just some 
parameters that control basically the weight between these two terms. 
And we are minimizing not only over theta. 
Not, sorry, not on the over I, as within the previous slide, we also normalize 
over theta. If we had theta, this is all we need, but 
here is, we're building the edges, and the image consistent with the edges, at 
the same time. There, here is the consistency. 
And here is building the edges. And here, what we have is as most 
continuation of edges. As we saw, as we learn from professional 
restorators. Let as look at this turn for a second. 
If theta is the normalized gradient. As we write it here. 
What is the divergence of this? We saw that in the previous week. 
What's the divergence of the normalized gradient? 
Let's think for a second. That's the curvature. 
This term. Is curvature. 
Of what? Of the leg lines of my image, which are 
kind of edges. So we're saying. 
Propagate the edges inside in such a way that the curvature doesn't go crazy. 
If it, if the curvature basically goes crazy, then we're going to be paying a 
lot of penalty for that. P is a parameter that says, how much 
penalty do we want to pay for that? So basically, we're doing a smooth 
propagation of edges in such a way that the curvature is relatively mild inside, 
and at the same time, we're recovering an image that is consistent with those edges 
that we're propagating. This term is to make everything even 
smoother and more regular, and so it has a mathematical justification. 
With this term, this compete formulation you can prove a lot of beautiful math for 
it and without a term, the things become a bit more difficult and are what is 
called ill-posed. They're not very well defined. 
So it's a technical term that we add to make this equation actually look okay. 
Now, how do we solve this? Euler-Lagrange equations. 
And now we have two unknowns, theta and the image. 
It's exactly the same, you compute the Euler-Lagrange, like, I is constant, you 
compute all the Euler-Lagrange for theta, that gives you one equation. 
And then you keep theta constant and you compute Euler-Lagrange for I that gives 
you the second equation. So instead of one equation as we have 
before when we knew theta, you get two equations. 
One that is evolving eye, the other that is evolving feet. 
And you are solving both of them at the same time. 
So it's like fixing one for a short time, solving for the other, fixing the other, 
solving for one of them. then you iterate. 
And you get this. Copy. 
Partial differential equation on both I and theta, but it is very elegant, 
because we can think about what we want, and with a sign of variation of 
formulation that, that achieves that for us. 
We want the image to be consistent with the edges. 
We've assigned that. We want the edges to continue smoothly. 
We know smoothness is curvature. We design for that. 
We put that into an energy that penalizes for not achieving what we want and then 
we compute the Euler-Lagrange and we solve that equation. 
Let us see some examples. Again we start by artificial examples, so 
we block these line. So basically, this is what we get. 
By blocking it, and by running this equation we'll smoothly continue it. 
A very nice continuation. Similar example as we had before, we 
block this and we get a smooth and nice continuation of this. 
We do the same here. We block this cross and we get a smooth 
continuation. Now you may ask: why did we get a smooth 
continuation of the bright and not the dark? 
Now this is a deterministic algorithm when you implement it, basically it chose 
one over the other. There's no way for the algorithm to know 
which one is the one that you might want. Here we have the famous at symbol. 
We block it and look. We get not the add symbol, we get this. 
Now, this is examples like the chair I show in the very beginning of this week. 
The computer doesn't know the @ symbol. The computer is just looking for the 
minimal energy to complete. Now the completion, the feeling that 
painting is beautiful is perfectly fine. Is not the add symbol we started. 
But remember imaging painting is trying to give you back something that looks 
okay and there's no way for the computer to know that what you wanted is to get 
back the @ symbol, not in this fashion. So you get a perfectly fine, actually 
this has lower energy according to the energy that we just defined that the @ 
symbol and that's why it went into that one. 
So perfectly fine, but without this higher level information of the @ symbol 
which cannot be achieved with these type of local algorithms for inpainting. 
It works nice for artificial examples. Let's see if he works for real ones. 
Here, there is a nice picture of Groucho Marx. 
And then we have regions that we want to in paint. 
Here, we kind of see an evolution. And this is the result. 
A nice recover along filling in along those regions. 
Another example as we have seen before, we have letters and we get the letters 
removed. So the basic image pictures are flowing 
in by solving this variational formulation. 
Now, those are simple examples. And I want to conclude these examples 
with going back to the very beginning when I say. 
We are in painting, structure, and colors. 
What about kind of, the noise, the granularity of the image? 
This is one way of doing that, and even going beyond that. 
So you start from an image. And these are the regions that we want to 
in paint. You first take this image and decompose 
in two parts. One, and I'm going to say in second how 
we do that. Let me just explain the diagram first. 
One, it's like this was smooth. It has no granularity. 
No texture at all. And the others were all the texture has 
done. Okay? 
Now you in paint the structure part with the techniques I just mentioned to you. 
You basically continue the boundaries and continue these flat colors inside. 
And you get a very beautiful continuation. 
The texture, the granularity, you use a technique that is designed to impend 
granularity. We're going to explain that technique 
actually in the next video. So see for example how here the texture 
has been very nicely continued. Here. 
And then you go and add those two again. And you get that great reconstruction 
that has this structure continue. Has the colors continue. 
Has also the texture and the granularity continue. 
Here's the structure and the colors. Here is the texture. 
How do we do this decomposition? There are a few techniques out there that 
follow something developed by Yves Meyer. Just to give one example and we get this 
decomposition into something which is pitch-wise smooth, so it has not a lot of 
oscillations and variations and something that has all the oscillations and 
variations. You in paint here with the techniques 
that I just showed to you. Either the partial differential equations 
base one. Or the variational one, for example. 
You in painted texture. Here, the granularity was something we 
are going to discuss next. Which is kind of a cut and paste type of 
technique. And then you add them back. 
And you get a beautiful reconstruction. And you get everything in one image. 
So in the next video I'm going to talk a bit more about this type of cut and paste 
technique. You actually already know it. 
And I'm going to remind you what it is in the next video. 
I'm looking forward to to that. Thank you very much.