Hello and Welcome back. 
I am going to show you now an example of imaging painting inside Adobe Photoshop. 
Adobe has implemented a number of types of image in painting algorithms. 
Some are based on partial differential equations of the type that we showed in 
the previous videos. Actually, they used a higher order 
partial differential equation as we have seen in one of the videos in this class. 
And also, they have implemented this smart cut and paste type of techniques 
that we show in the previous video. So let's see an example. 
In particular, we are using the tool that is called the Healing Brush, 
and it has a number of options, as I just described. 
Some based on partial differential equation, some based on cut and paste. 
And what we see here is one of the images they show in the previous video, 
this was the image to be in painted, we want to remove this object. 
This is the result that they show in the previous video. 
It was not obtained with Photoshop. It was obtained with similar techniques 
of smart cut and paste and variation and formulations. 
So, lets see how we can apply the Healing Brush. 
Now, in real time in the demo, to obtain similar results of removing this. 
So, the basic idea, I hope you can see the circle there. 
Let me just put it in a nice background, so you can see it. 
And the basic idea, is you kind of start painting what you want to be removed. 
I'm going to release now, and in thinking, and it's gone. 
It's basically gone, and it's kind of the background starts to appear. We'll just 
do a bit more. I paint around, I brush, 
and is working, and is disappearing, and is starting to look like this. 
Again, remember this was not the original. 
This was [INAUDIBLE] by the techniques we describe and now is happening in real 
time. Let me just do one more. 
And you see, it's starting to disappear. And it's very nicely [INAUDIBLE] filled 
in. And we can keep going until we make 
everything that we don't want, every object that we don't want, 
we make it disappear by basically blending information from the background 
inside it. So, this is a nice demo of something that 
is available with Photoshop. Thank you very much. 
I see you in the next video.