Hello and welcome back. 
Let us now talk about Video Inpainting. You basically already have all the tools 
to do Video Inpainting. Remember, and I'm showing these in very 
slow motion, a video is a sequence of frames, a sequence of images. 
So, we can basically use the tools that we developed for Image Inpainting now in 
Video Inpainting. How? 
For example, we can take, in the Cut and Paste, instead of two-dimensional patches 
x, y, we can consider three-dimensional patches x, y, t and look at them in the 
video. In the whole video, that would be very 
expensive but we can look at them in segments of the video. 
We can also run the partial differential equations or the variational formulations 
considering, for example, three-dimensional gradients. 
When we talk about curvature, we can consider the videos as surfaces and talk 
about surface curvatures like Mean curvature or Gaussian curvature. 
So basically, the same type of concepts, Laplacian, we can take derivatives in the 
x, y, and t directions. Some type of concepts, we can expand to 
do Video Inpainting. And that's how today, Video Inpainting is 
done in the literature extending those concepts that we saw for images. 
Now, Video Inpainting has a bit of different characteristics. 
For example, here, let me just show you with the 
arrows. There are some objects that are static in 
the video so they will never appear in any of the frames. 
And there are some objects that move in the video so it's slightly different if 
we want to remove static objects than if we want to remove moving objects. 
For example, if we want to remove a moving object, all what we have to do is 
wait until it's gone in one of the future frames and copy from those frames into 
the current frame. So, I want to remove this now. 
Look at my pointer, now it's gone. So, I basically can copy those pixels, 
those pixels from future frames into the current frame. Because the object is 
moving, the current background appears in some of the previous or some of the 
future frames. When the object is fixed, it's slightly 
different. The background is never revealed but this 
Cut and Paste or partial differential equations or variation of formulations 
will work there. So, you could if you want make a 
distinction between these two and differently inpaint each region or you 
could just let those techniques that we described for images work with all the 
objects. Here, we see an example of this video 
inpainted with those combination of Cut and Paste propagation of information as 
we have seen, we basically have removed a number of objects, we have removed 
basically this, this, and this. We have removed both static and dynamic objects 
with those techniques without making any explicit distinction between them. 
Here is another example. what we want to remove now, as you see, 
is this object. Remember, for inpainting you get the 
video, as we got the image, you have to get the 
mask, a video with the mask. Now, of course, doing that by hand for 
video is much more time-consuming than doing it by hand for still images. 
But we have to mix to do segmentation in video as we have seen, for example, the 
Roto Brush in Adobe's After Effects. And here is the, the result of basically 
removing this person or this mask. And you see the video looks completely 
natural. We, it's very hard to realize for us that 
this is not the original video but it actually is not and it's actually 
inpainted with this dynamic object. And now here, we have a second example. 
This is an example that we have already seen in the past and once again, we are 
basically removing one object and making you believe that it was the original 
video. This basically concludes our presentation 
of Image and Video Inpainting. We have seen very, very good techniques 
for doing this and as we talked in the past, this is used a lot, for example, 
in the movie industry. But its also used a lot to improve our 
own pictures, our own images, and remove objects that we don't like on those 
images. I hope you had fun, this is really a fun 
topic. You can make a lot of nice stuff with 
Image and Video Inpainting. Thank you very much and I am going to see 
you again next week. Thank you.