Hello and welcome back. In this video
we're going to be talking about image processing in a very particular
application, medical imaging. And this is image processing for virus understanding.
And in particular to understand the shape of the HIV virus. This actually brings a
lot of challenges, as we are going to see. We're going to have to talk about many,
many topics in image processing including image acquisition and let's start with
that. There are many ways to acquire images. And before we do that, we have to
understand. One of the basic things is the size of the structure that we're trying to
acquire. And here we see a scale of very different structures. depending on what
this type we want to acquire what type of technology, we're are going to be using to
acquire that data? And of course, we are used to light, we are used to cameras.
Basically, light reflecting from objects and then giving us a picture. But
depending on the size of the objects and their scale, we might need different
modities for image accusition. During this video we are interested in viruses and
then we are going to be talking about nanometers or angstroms scale and in
particular what we are going to use is not light we are going to use electrons to
aquire our image because we are at a very, very small scale. Again, in the orders of
nanometers and angstroms. Now, let me just tell you why we are interested in
something very small in the HIV virus. And I hope this diagram, although a bit
complicated. I think It illustrates a lot of the challenges that we're going to have
and why is this so important what I'm going to explain next. So here we have an
HIV virus. Remember we're talking again maybe 100 angstrom, you know just very,
very small structures. And here basically, we have the host set. So basically, the
virus is trying to latch into this host, and in order to do that, it uses things
here which are called envelop or spikes. And then they go and try to latch here as
showin in this diagram. And then basically transmission foes into the host's cell. So
we're interested in this virus and in particular this might surprise you, and it
will surprise you even more when you see the images. We are interested in these
basically, these envelopes or spikes. They're called envelopes, and often,
they're just read as ENV. And, once again, because that's what the HIV is using to
latch itself into the membrane of the host cell and if we understand that structure,
we might be able to stop and to block that connection and hopefully stop
transmission. That's what we want to get. Now we are at those small scales,
remember. And then what we need to use is not light. We won't be able with light to
get to that scale. We use electrons and here is a diagram. Now once again your use
to basically light. So light comes, reflects in objects like me and then
regular cameras like the video camera that is recording right now, captures the
reflection. In transmission electron microscopy, basically we have this
specimen we basically have. A specimen with HIV, for example, but other specimens
are possible as well. Microscopy is used all over for biological research.
Electrons basically go, it's like you throw electrons into the specimen and you
see, and you let them just go through. Basically you capture the image, you
capture the image of the specimen by measuring how the electrons go through,
and we see that in this diagram. There is a lens, and there is the image plane.
That's where things basically get captured. This is a picture Of this
device. The high end devices are not very cheap they can cost millions of dollars so
this is not something that you carry with you like regular digital camera. Once
again this uses electods are hiden in the speciman basically to go through and then
we capture it. So for us, it's a different way of creating images, but the important
way is that we can create images for these particles that are very, very, very, very
small. So that's electron microscopy. And here is an image of what you will get from
electron microscopy. Now remember, have always in mind, this is what we saw in the
previous diagram. This is what we are looking for. One projection of that. So
you took this electron microscopy and you basically threw electrons and you one
projection of that. And that's basically what you have here so this, is this.
Doesn't look very nice but we are going to have to deal with that and we are actually
going to change the molality a little bit but it's not that it doesn't look very
nice because the instrument isn't very good or the person taking the image is not
Very good in doing that. This is actually extremely good quality for this
technology. And we need this technology because we want to get these very tiny,
very, very tiny elements. So we are going to have to deal with this. Before I do
that, before I show you how to do that This is the beauty of image processing,
that we are going to be able to deal with this. Let me just talk a bit more about
tomography. Instead of just taking, putting the specimen and just taking one
view, what, what you do in tomography is you rotate the specimen. So let me just
show you this here. So you have the specimen and then yo rotate it and you
rotate it and you take multiple images of this rotation and that's what's called
tomography. Now, what do I mean by cryo? Okay. First of all we now know what's
electron. Instead of electron microscopy we say electron tomography because we have
multiple projections. Cryo is because, with the specimen, before we put here, we
freeze it at prior temperatures. Now, this technology helps to reduce radiation. This
is very important. When life is hitting me, you can take as many pictures as you
want of me. I'm not going to get hurt by that. When you throw electrons at the
specimen, you're hurting the specimen. You're changing it. So you're changing the
shape of what you're trying to understand the shape of, and this is very dangerous.
So this technique of cryo-electron tomography helps to reduce the rad iation
of that and also helps you to obtain 3-dimension information because you have
multiple, multiple tips. So that's basically what we do and let's see images
in a second. But we are doing cryo-electron tomography. This is just one
of those images. Again, remember we're interested in this kind of stuff. And
actually we're interested in these spikes. You might be able to see some of them
there. But that's what we want to get the 3-dimensional shape of that. They're very,
very tiny and have received very, very noisy. So here's where you get the call to
image processing. And just to say once again what kind of data we have. We got
tiers. Basically we have the specimen. We rotate.
We throw the electrons that did, we get one projection. We do a different rotation
we get a different projection. A different rotation, a different projection. Then we
put them together and we get the three dimensions. So I'm going to always show
you slices of this, because, most of the time, I'm going to show you 3D when we get
the reconstruction. But remember, this is supposed to represent this. And we obtain
it so here was the specimen, very, very tiny, and here is the image in the
computer. Now, the image processing starts with putting all these projections
together to get the 3D. Normally, although there are alternatives, that's done with
what is called fiducials. So, you basically embed in this specimen gold
particles and then you have a gold particle, let's; say this pink and then
you know where the gold particule is in every single one of the projections and
then you align the images based on those cold particles. So you throw in a few and
you put them together and that helps you to stack the images and to basically get
the 3D in the computer of the real 3-dimensional virus. Now there's one thing
I want to explain here. When you are doing the projection, you can see, this is very
thin. And so, I'm illustrating it much wider. We're talking about very, very
thin. So you cryo, micro-cryo-tomography, cryo-microscopy, you have a very thin
slice at cryo-temperatures. So if I do the projection that I'm going to try to throw
electrons from here. You're not going to get a lot because it's very, very thick.
So look at my hand now. it's okay to have electrons going like this but not going
like this. Okay. So if I have something very, very thin I
can just do this. Remember, rotating the specimen is like rotating the raise. So I
can have raise here but not raise here and maybe also not raise there. So we actually
don't have the full 180 degrees. We normally, out of the 180 degrees. We might
basically miss here 30 degrees and another 30 degrees there. And that's called a
missing wedge. As we're going to see yet another problem. We actually don't have
all the data we wanted to have because of this missing wedge. But now we are about
to get into the image processing. We acquired the data. We align the
projections using gold particles most of the time and now it's time to find those
viruses and find those envelops. Now, this is what you see. You have a line and this
is what you see. Remember, this is the schematic of what we are looking for. But
these are slices of this 3D that we just have done. Now do you see here the
envelopes or the spikes? No you dont see them. This is where we need image
processing. We have extremly noisy data and we have the missing wedge. We have
tons of problems.Are we going to be able to reconstruct these 3D. I am going to
reassure you, yes that the answer is yes at a certain accuracy, of course. Again,
these are just slices on the 3D volume that was reconstructed with
cryo-tomography. This is what we have, this is the process that we have. We had
basically a virus or a structure inside a specimen. We took multiple projections.
Look how I represented here the missing wedge. We didn't take the whole around
projection. We basically have missing wedge here so we took that and we kind of
get a noisy version in this 3D volume. But there is 1 thing which is very important.
We get multiple copies of these, as we have seen. Let me show you that again. We
may have multiple copies. You see one. You see another one coming here. I'm going to
show you more. We have multiple copies of these. And we also have multiple copies of
this, and that's what we are going to exploit with image processing. We are
going to exploit that we have not one very noisy example but multiple very noisy
examples. So hopefully we can extract them, put them together, and get the three
dimensions that we want. Remember one thing, when we talk about image denoising
we already discussed that if we have multiple copies of the same object with
random noise added, one of the best things you can do for de-noising is add all those
multiple copies. If the noise has zero mean, and it's random, then it would just
cancel each other. That basically was the concept behind local means. It's also the
concept just behind local averaging. You basically want to average things that are
repetitions of the same and that will help you to eliminate the noise. Remember if
you average 10, the value of the noise goes down by the square of that. So a
hundred, the more you average, the more you manage to de-noise. So that's great
but what's the challenge here? Multiple challenges. These images are very noisy.
The spikes, the envelopes, here, are rotated. We have to align them before we
average them otherwise it will be a mess. Okay, if you average this with this, you
let's say these two vectors you get something like this nothing to do with any
of them. So, you have to first align them and I am going to demonstrate that in one
of the next slides. So you have to align them and also are they identical copies?
Maybe there are multiple different structures. Maybe slightly different, but
still different. So we're going to have to rotate, align them, group only those that
are the same. And only after we do all that, then we're allowed to average. So,
here is the problem. Let me illustrate that to you. Let's say that we have three
things as we see here. 1, 2, 3. Now let's simulate cryo electron tomography for
this. We basically get multiple copies of each one. That's a good part. We get
multiple copies of each one, very noisy. Okay? That's not so good. The multiple
copies is good, the noise is not very good, but we have to deal with that. We
get them rotated. That's also not very good, but we're going to have to deal with
that. And then, we get the missing wedge. Okay? So and of course we don't have the
originals, this is what we have. So somebody gave you this, very noisy data,
with missing data, the missing wedge. They didn't give you in the columns, they are
all unorganized. So you have to be able, from them, you have to be able to group
the ones that came From basically the same building. Here we have to be able to group
back here. You have to rotate back and all that from this noisy data with a lot of
missing information. If we have 30 degrees missing. We have 60 degrees missing out of
180. That's a lot of missing information and that's represented here. So this holes
is a realistic proportion. You have this group aligned, do everything. And
hopefully after you're done, of course, you're doing all the rotations, all the
groupings and everything together. Hopefully you are able to reconstruct back
the virus or the images as we represent here. So, imagine that you take multiple
cameras of the same thing and, but you occlude the cameras in a random fashion.
you add a lot of noise. So now you have multiple pictures of the same scene. And
now somebody comes and say hey, give me back the shape of that building. Very
challenging but hopefully doable because you have multiple copies. So, what are
some of the challenges that we have here? We have very low SNR. We have this problem
with alignments and missing data. And, we need a lot of free time to remove the
noise and basically we are going to have computational challenges. So lets see how
we address each one of these challenges. In part together and in part separate and
this is a very tough problem but I think your going to get happy to see the kind of
resize that we can get. So lets get into that. The first thing that we have to do
is define a distance. Remember we want to align this projections or this, this three
dimensinal shapes but with missing Information with the missing wedge, and
with noise. So, how do I design, going back to the images in 2D projections of
the buildings. How do I design when these 2 are aligned, or they are not aligned? I
need to basically define a distance. And we take any 2 images, we look at the 2
projections, or 2, 3 dimensions, depending. Depending where are we working,
and how do I know if these two are aligned or not? That's the first thing we need to
do, basically to define a distance. We are going to allow the images to rotate and
also translate later on, and we want to be able to say, hey, keep rotating, keep
rotating, stop. That's where you are align, so I need to define the distance
between two images with to noise and with the missing . So let's illistrate that.
That's the first step every time that we need to align images. How to decide when
they are already aligned? ,, . So we have 1 image here, which I represent as a 1
dimension signal. Here, we have this 1 dimensional signal. And we represent it
here. But we don't have the whole signal. We actually have the missing wedge. So we
only have the signal in certain parts of it. Now we have another signal. And also
for it, we have a missing wedge. Very important.
We basically do'nt have the missing wedge in the same place. Remember, these
particles were rotated. So the missing wedge is kind of fixed for a particular
aquisition. But the particles are all rotated so with respect to them the
missing wedge is all the time in a different position. Now if you actually
know where the missing wedge is or you can guess. It's either you know from the
instrument or you kind of guess it because there is a lack of signal to noise. There.
And these are basically the two images that we need to basically decide a
distance between them. We wish to have them like here, complete, but we only have
portions of them. And the only place where we can compare them is when we have
Portions of both. So here, we have information for the first one. But there's
no information for the second one. Here, we had, for the second one, not for the
first one. So the only place where we can compare is when we have information for
both of them. So we can take a distance. Euclidean distance or any distance that
you think is appropriate. But we need to only consider places where both of them
are available and that's by this product. So this and this are basically square
binary signals. 1 I have a signal 0, I don't have a signal. And I can only look
at places where both of them are 1. So I have signals for both of them. again, you
can just take that basically almost any type of metric that you wish, and
illustrate it here with just a , Type of distances. And this is going to be kind of
your distance. You take the difference between the images but you only consider
where both of them are available and of course you have to normalize. By the
amount of energy they have per signal, and that's basically written here. That's
standard. Always a, a dis, distance with the pen of
how much overlap you found, and we really do basically normalize for that. So that's
the distance that we're going to use to illustrate the examples in the next few
slides. Now this distance, actually, is not too hard to compute. You can actually
compute in the Fourier domain. We haven't discussed this Course, too much about
Fourier. For those that have a background in signal processing, you know what
Fourier is. But we did talk about DCT, the Discrete Cosine Transform, so basically,
you take the signals, go into a different domain, in the Fourier domain. And in that
domain, you do this calculation. It's very convenient to do that for computational
reasons. It's also very convenient to do that there, because it's very easy to
represent a wedge than missing information there. So we have this distance which is a
euclidean distance, but weighted for the regions where we have common information.