Hello, it's great to have you back. 
This is week 6, and the topic of this week is partial differential equations in 
image processing. Some of you might remember, some of you 
might know what partial differential equations are. 
Some of you might not remember when you studied that, maybe a long time ago, 
maybe just a few years ago. But don't worry because every other week 
this is going to be a very self containing week. 
Before I give you a bit more of details of what we are going to learn this week 
let me try to explain to you what we mean by partial differential equations what is 
kind of this new area. Relatively new area in imagine processing 
but certainly new for us in this class. So far we have been considering images at 
discrete objects in the computer. If we look for example at the still 
image. We already talked it looks continuous to 
us but actually it is a connection of pixels so its like this great two 
dimensional array of pixels as we have represented here now they are so close to 
each other we already talked about resolution they're so close to each other 
that it looks like a continuous image, but actually it is a discreet object. 
It's representing the computer as a discreet object. 
The same happens with movies. We already know that movies are discrete 
object. They look continuous to us, like this 
movie that we are watching here, because the sampling in time is basically very 
fast, and that's why our perception perceives this as a continuous object, 
but we already know that this is a discrete object. 
30 frames per second, 24 frames per second. 
So images and videos are discreet both in space. 
In time and also at the gray levels. They look continuous to us but they are 
discreet objects. Now that leads us to what we have been 
doing most of these five previous weeks using tools from discreet representations 
from discreet mathematics because we have discreet objects in the computer. 
So what's different when we start talking about partial differential equations. 
What's different is that we're going to start considering continuous objects. 
So what we consider discreet objects the way that videos and images are 
represented in the computer we see for example, sums. 
We never saw the sign of an integral we always talk about sums we talked about 
discreet operations. Also, every time we saw kind of a 
continuous object a derivative which is a toll from calculus is a continuous object 
then we immediately discretize it. Remember, we talked about, for example, 
it's derivative. Derivative indicates direction, and we 
say, okay, let's do plus one and minus one here. 
So immediately we redefine its discreet counterpart because we want to be in a 
discreet wall. We want to be in a discreet space. 
The area of partial differential equations says forget about that the area 
of partial differential equations has a completely different approach and says 
images are continuous objects do not treat them as discreet images anymore 
that's just an artifact of computer representations. 
Treat them as continuous objects. And then you basically are going to be 
talking about image processing that's iterations of infinite decimal operators, 
things that happen at very, very small scale we iterate them. 
And when we are iterating them, actually, we get these partial differential 
equations, but once again if you don't remember exactly what they are, we are 
going to explain that in the next videos. Don't worry about that, the key concept 
is here. Images are not discreet objects, images 
are continuous. So go and gather up all of your 
algorithms that are in your continuous domain. 
Treat images as continuous objects, and then you can do partial differential 
equations you can also differentiate geometry, tools that are from continuous 
mathematics. All of a sudden, they are valid. 
They're powerful for basically discreet image processing, but then you ask 
yourself, wait a second. You gather up them, but my images are 
still discreet objects in my computer. But here comes to the rescue, numerical 
analysis. Numerical analysis is exactly the area 
that says how do I implement continuous algorithms? 
How do I implement continuous mathematics in discrete domains like a computer? 
So you go and develop algorithms with tools of continuous mathematics and then. 
Numerical analysis comes to the rescue once we need to implement those 
algorithms in the computer. So it's kind of a different paradigm. 
It's not better, its not worse. It's different than the paradigm that we 
were used to before, when we consider images from the very beginning as 
discreet objects. Now, 
why? Why is this happening now? 
What's going on? Why do we move from this, from this 
completely discreet, that basically if we look historically, has mostly dominated 
image and video processing for years and years, until basically about ten years 
ago, and of course there are a number of reasons why these continuous tools appear 
in image processing one is computers we can more powerful and then numerical 
algorithms to implement this continuous math that were impossible to have in a 
computer we can actually do able in even small and personal computers of course 
every. New tools can because some people moved 
into the area and we should never forget about the influence of people. 
So a lot of people in the last ten years or so that were interested in continuous 
mathematics also became interested in image processing and they brought their 
tools, their expertise into image processing. 
Now we're going to see, as I said we're going to see examples. 
I am going to provide you the background but. 
What is it bringing to us? It's going to bring a number of things. 
It brings new concepts. It brings accuracy. 
This is a very important thing, because we are in continuous domain, 
and then we implement by numerical, algorithms. 
The accuracy will depend on the implementation, not on the design of the 
algorithm. The algorithm is designed in the 
continuous domain, so there is no intrinsic accuracy. 
Depending how much I'm willing to invest, computation and resources for example, in 
the implementation that will determine the actual accuracy of the algorithm. 
It's not intrinsic to the algorithm. When I define a derivative at plus minus, 
plus one minus one, I'm done. 
I have defined the accuracy of my algorithm. 
Now if I define the continuum and, and then say do the derivative the best you 
can, I leave the door open to very high 
accuracy techniques. Another thing that was broad, that we are 
not going to discuss a lot in this class, and certainly not in this week, is very 
formal analysis. A lot of the techniques that came from 
the area of partial differential equations to image processing have very 
formal analysis. You can prove theorems, you can prove 
that what your doing is right even before your going and implementing the 
algorithm. So it's one of the most mathematical 
areas in image and video processing. I'm not saying its the only one, but it's 
one of the most mathematical areas. And the consequences of this is that 
partial differential equation tools brought a lot of state of the al-, 
algorithms. But I think one of the most important 
things, and I want to leave you before we go into details with this take home 
message, is that there are new tools and new books in the bookshelf. 
So when you bring a new theory into an area, 
you say, okay all these new frameworks are now allowed. 
And it always good to have more tools to solve real problems, as we are going to 
see this week and a bit next week. So, what we're going to do this week is 
I'm going to give you the tools to understand the underlying and the 
simplest possible tools to understand the area of partial differential equations in 
image processing. We're going to filter in examples that is 
going to show you to understand. Remember, last week we discussed active 
counters, that's one example of the use of partial differential equations in 
image processing as we are going to see very soon in one of the future videos. 
And we are also going to talk next week about imaging painting and some of the 
algorithms we are going to subscribe there are based on partial differential 
equations. As I said, is one of the most 
mathematical areas that we're going to discuss during these nine weeks of 
classes in image and video processing. But there's nothing to worry, because I'm 
going to introduce you to the basic concepts and the basic tools that you 
need to understand the fundamental concepts behind this area of partial 
differential equations in image processing. 
And we're going to start learning about those concepts right in the next video. 
Thank you.