Hello. 
We're going to start with some background in the area of planar differential 
geometry, the area of differential geometry and the understanding of curves 
on the plain. Before I do that, I want to provide some credit. 
I work a lot in the area of partial differential equations in image 
processing, and some time ago I wrote a book.. 
My good colleague and friend Ron Kimmel also wrote a book in the area and we used 
to give a lot of talks independently. I gave full semester classes, he gives 
full semester classes and sometimes we give together tutorials on this subject. 
A lot of the slides I am using during this week come from those tutorials and I 
want to thank Professor Kimmel for letting me share some of his slides and 
combining them with mine so that I can provide the topic of partial differential 
equations in this week. Thank you Professor Kimmel for that. 
now, let's talk about curves, so we can describe what do I mean by differential 
geometry of curves. So what's a curve on the plane? 
A curve on the plane will define a coordinate system, and this is for 
convenience. We have the X axis and the Y axis and 
then we define a curve parameterized by P, we called P the parameter. P runs 
between zero and one, and for every value of P, we get a coordinate in this axis, 
and a coordinate in this axis, and that's a coordinate of one point on the curve. 
So, basically, for example, for P equals 0.1, we get this point. 
Then for a different p like 0.7, we get another point, and so on. 
So I'm sure you get the idea. Basically a different values of p within 
zero and one give us different points on the curve. 
Now, if a curve is closed like here, what we have is that c at zero. 
Is equal to C and one. So it starts and ends basically on the 
same point, and that's a closed curve. Now you're very familiar with this 
concept. If maybe you're not so familiar with 
curves but for sure you are familiar with functions. 
So functions, you have a coordinate system, X and Y as here, and you have a 
function, that for every value of X there's one unique value of Y. 
That doesn't happen in normal curves. In that case your curve is parmitrized by 
this coordinate itself so we get c of x equal. 
The first coordinate is X by itself. That's the first coordinate, 
and the second is some function of it. So these are just functions that you are 
very familiar with. Again, the difference between a function 
and a general curve is that for each one of these coordinates, each one of the 
X's, there's only one Y, and that's why it's called a function. 
There's a, basically a unique value. So it's a particular case of a curve. 
We could think about curves also as a generalization of functions on the plane. 
Now, once we understand the curve, which is parameterized by this P, and we're 
going to discuss a lot about P in the next few minutes. 
There's a couple of very important concepts of curves on the plane, and two 
of them are the tangent and the normal. And also what we call the curvature, 
which we're going to explain in a second. Let's start from the tangent. 
Basically, we have a curve, and we can take the derivative of this curve. 
So this is where differential equations, differential geometry starts to appear. 
C_PP stands for the derivative of C taken by p. 
So its basically CP. It's just a simplifying notation of the 
derivative of C with respect to P, which is of course a vector, 
is the derivative of x with respect to p. C is a function of p, so I'm allowed to 
take the derivative of that, Y as a function of P. 
so this is what we have here and we normalize by its length, we want to get 
that unit length and that's actually very, very important. 
As we are going to see, there is a particular parametrization called S that 
provides us a tangent that has unit length. 
And we're going to use that a lot. And we're going to see how we go from P 
to S. But the basic idea is that we take a 
derivative of this curve. And you learn in your basic calculus 
class that the derivative of a function gives you a vector which is 
perpendicular, but which is sorry, it's tangent. 
To that function. In a second we are going to talk about 
perpendicular. So once again, the derivative of a 
function gives you a vector which is tangent to that function. 
So the derivative. Of this curve are vectors, which are 
tangent. And they don't have to have unit length, 
so we normalize them, and there is one particular parmituzation we are going to 
write s that will give us a unit length. And again we are going to see how we go 
from one to the other. Now what we are going to, now that we 
have the tangent, and in particular, bear with me for a second. 
We have the curve parameterized in such a way that the tangent, meaning the 
derivative, is always unit length. What do I mean by unit length? 
That the, basically the magnitude of the derivative vector is equal to one. 
Okay? Unit length. 
Let's assume that I can basically write a curve. 
Instead of a function of P, a function of a different parameter S that gives me 
unit length. Now length means, 
and I'm going to write this down and explain again, this means that the inner 
product of the vector with itself is equal one. 
If you don't remember what's the inner product between two vectors, is basically 
you multiply the first coordinate of vector one by the first coordinate of 
vector two, and to that you sum the product of the second coordinate of each 
vector. So it's X of the first times X of the 
second, plus Y of the first, times Y of the second. 
So that means that we have unit length. Let's take a derivative of this. So I'm 
going to take a derivative according to s in both sides. 
So this is the derivative. A constant is always unit length, so this 
becomes zero. The derivative of this is like any other 
product, it's the derivative of the first times the second plus the derivative of 
the second times the first but because these are equal then this is two times 
the inner product of the first derivative with the second derivative. 
It's like any other product, okay? The two I can eliminate, and this means 
that the first derivative, according to arc length, is perpendicular to the 
second derivative. Once again, just to remind you, two, the 
inner product of two vectors is equal to zero, if and only if one vector is 
perpendicular to the other. So from here, 
we get that CS, the first derivative, is perpendicular to the second derivative. 
Now the magnitude of the first derivative is one. 
The second derivative, we have it here, is perpendicular to the first one. 
All the time when we are taking derivatives according to s, the first is 
unit vector, the second is perpendicular to it. 
So this is the second derivative. Now it doesn't have to be a unit vector. 
Most of the time it won't. And we call the magnitude of that second 
derivative we call the curvature. This is the curvature. 
Okay, this is one definition of the curvature. 
It basically tells us how much the tangent is changing and it's very 
intuitive. If it changes a lot, it means that the 
curve is curving along there and has very high curvature. 
It it's not curving a lot, for example a straight line has zero curvature, so 
what's a tangent of a straight line? At every point it just changed colors. 
At every point the tangent is in the same direction. 
It's in the direction of the line. So the change of tangent, tangent is the 
first derivative, second derivative is the change. 
The change of the tangent is zero. So a planner, basically a straight line 
has zero curvature. What's a curvature of a circle? 
So we have to, basically again, draw the time change all the time. 
And then see how they're changing infinitesimally when I move from one 
point to the other. Those are derivatives. 
Derivatives means when you're very, very close how is the tangent changing? 
First of all, it's constant because the circle is all the same. 
So it has to be constant curvature. And then it's not hard to prove that the 
curvature is one over the radius. Okay, so the curvature is one over the 
radius of the circle. The larger the circle, the more curvature 
it has, the, the, the, sorry, the larger the circle, the more radius it has, one 
over the radius, the smaller the curvature. 
You could think about a straight line as a circle with infinite radius, very, very 
large radius and then one over infinite is zero, so basically has zero curvature. 
So there's a lot of new concepts in this very colorful slide. Let's go over them 
again. We have the tangent which is as we know 
from basic functional analysis, basic calculus, is basically the first 
derivative. We want to normalize it, we want to have 
unit length and there is a parametrization, we're going to see how 
we get to it, that basically gives us that the first derivative is always unit 
length. Always unit length we take a derivative 
of that concept and we get the second derivative which is always perpendicular 
to the first one only when we are talking derivatives taking derivatives according 
to s. And then that second derivative has a 
norm. Basic a demand to that vector and that's 
curvature. Curvature is the magnitude of the second 
derivative according to s. This is going to be called the arc 
length, as we are going to see in a second why. 
So we have s, the arc length. And we have. 
This is kappa, is the Greek letter kappa, which is the curvature. 
Now we have s and the curvature and we talk about their relationship between the 
curvature and the radius of a circle. These are actually the only two objects 
with constant. El cleanant curvature straight line zero 
a circle one over the radius. Now why are these guys s and curvature 
kappa. So important. 
Very important, because they're going to be preserved under transformations of the 
curve, under certain transformations. What kind of transformations can we have 
in curves? So, I have here a curve. 
Where's the curve? It's the boundary of my object. 
Now we are starting to understand why differential geometry is important, 
because curves are boundaries of objects and objects are present in images. 
Now, I can transform these in a number of ways, but always preserving it on the 
plane. I generally transform is, I take my 
coordinates, which are a vector and I multiply by a matrix and I translate and 
I get a new vector. And that's what called an define 
transform, if I don't put any limitations in this matrix, so I take the curve and 
with an define transform, I transform it into a new curve. 
Now, I can also just rotate my shape. Here it has the form, it has stretch in 
different dimensions in different directions. 
If I only want to translate and rotate, so I rotate and translate or I translate 
and rotate, that imposes some limitations in A and it's not hard to show that in 
order to only allow rotations and translations, the two vectors of A, so A 
is a two by two matrix. I have here a vector multiplied by a two 
by two matrix. Sorry, 
a vector that I get it by a matrix multiplying a vector. 
This has to have columns which are orthogonal, meaning the inner product 
means zero we just saw that in the previous slide. 
Inner product equals zero means orthogonal, and they also have to be unit 
vectors. So this is just not hard to prove, but 
important thing here is that you can do a rotation and translation that's called a 
Euclidean motion, or can you, or you can do a general transformation and that is 
called an affine motion and of course these are too or these are also related 
by an affine motion. Now there's a particular think in a fine 
motions that if they the determinant of this matrix is equal to one then 
basically those are called equal equi-affine motions, if the determinant 
is equal to one, what happens is that the area doesn't change. 
So you can stretch differently, in different directions. 
You can rotate, you can translate but the area is preserved. 
Of course if you only allow Euclidean motions, rotations and translations, the 
area is preserved, but if you allow. A fine transformation stretches there is 
none necessarily preserved but if the determinate of the transformation matrix 
is equal to one. Then it's not hard to show that the area 
of this object, so the area inside the curve or the object itself is preserved 
and those I call equi-affine motions, equi-affine transformations, and we're 
going to often just call them a affine and we're going to assume that we are 
talking about those that we get with the determinant equal to one. 
Now these are the type of linear transformations. 
We're not going to discuss non-linear. I can take X and square log Y, things 
like that we're not going to discuss. We're only discussing about multiplying 
by a matrix, so that means a linear transformation. 
So we have Euclidean and we have affine, normally equi-affine. 
So now that we know that we can rotate, stretch and do things like that, curves, 
meaning to shapes. Let's go back to, for a second, to 
curvature. We talk about these two guys. 
The arc length and the curvature. The arc length is the parametrization 
that gives us constant unit length tangents. 
The curvature is the magnitude of the second derivative according to the arc 
length. So if we go around the curve, around this 
shape, we have, for every point a given curvature and I'm drawing it here. 
So S as the parametrization goes around the shape and for every S I have a point 
in the curve and then I have a curvature. Now let's assume I do an Euclidean 
transformation. I rotate and translate my shape. 
Something very interesting happens. There are of course, corresponding 
points, this point got rotated and translated to this one and here is the 
beauty. There we have the same curvature, so the 
curvature here. And the curvature here, it's going to be 
exactly the same value. So, if you were to take the first 
derivative, second derivative, measured the magnitudes in both corresponding 
points, exactly the same value. That happens for all the corresponding 
points. So here we have another pair of 
corresponding points. We have the same curvature. 
Sometimes the curvature will be zero, sometimes will be negative. 
Every pair of corresponding points has exactly the same curvature. 
Every single point. So basically if we have two shapes, that 
are related by a rotation and translation meaning an Euclidean motion, 
then their curvatures are identical. Of course, you have to have a starting 
point, that is, the corresponding where is S equal zero. 
Once you have that, exactly the same curvature. 
So the curvature uniquely identifies the shape, actual rotation and a translation, 
and that's beautiful. That's a theorem that basically this curve uniquely 
identifies the curve a meaning the shape inside a curve up to a rotation and a 
translation. It actually has been shown these are 
beautiful results in transformational geometry that every other thing that 
doesn't change with rotations and translations. 
Every other differential thing is a function of S and kappa, of arc length 
and curvature. For example we could take the curvature 
and the derivative of the curvature, and that gives us another crazy curve on the 
plane. So for every curvature we, we look at, 
what's the derivative, how much is the curvature changing in that point? 
We do that for one shape. We do a rotation and translation. 
Voila. We get exactly the same value. 
And that's theorem in part, basically due to Cartan, and they're extensions of the 
theorem, some even more modern than these one's but it's the beauty of that, if you 
have the arc of S and the curvature Kappa, you have all what are called the 
differential invariance, functions that don't change when you basically do 
rotations and translations. So basically they uniquely identify objects. 
That up to rotation and translation. You cannot recover the rotation. 
They're invariant to them. But basically they uniquely identify 
those objects up to rotation and translation in Euclidean geometry. 
Now what happens with affine transformations? 
What happens when we don't just do rotations and translation, but we also 
allow basically the curve, the shape to stretch and with different stretches in 
different directions? Now unfortunately, or fortunately if you 
like math, not everything in the world of image processing is rotations and 
translation. So let's assume I have a shape like my 
hand. If I only do things like this parallel to 
the camera. I can model the motion of the object by a 
rotation. The moment I tilt it towards the camera, 
and then I do the projection of that on the camera, then this is not any longer 
just a rotation and a translation. And one of the ways to model this is with 
these fine transforms. So. 
Basically, if your object is relatively. On a plane relatively to the distance to 
the camera. Like here, for example, a drawing on a 
plane and we are looking, this is the camera. 
Us, is the camera. We are looking at kind of a plainer shape 
then there is affine transform. So it is a more general multiplication by 
a matrix once again because I'm not doing the rotation and the translations just 
in, in pilot place to the camera I'm doing them a bit tilted. 
And that can be model by an affine transform, a more general linear 
transform. So, we need to extend these basic 
concepts to basically allow for those affine transforms. 
remember an affine transform is a more generic, 
basically matrix. We have the x and y, but we multiply by a 
more general matrix that normally has unit determinant. 
We want to preserve areas just to make our life easier. 
We don't need this. We can do all this without, basically a 
unit determinant, but it's much easier if we assume this. 
So, when we were talking about rotations and translations, remember, we assumed 
that this column and this column were orthogonal. 
So, basically, they're in a product equal to 
zero, and they were also normalized to one. 
And those are rotations and then we have a translation. 
When we assume more generic things like here, just a unit determinant, 
those are affine transformed. And we have kind of this tilting that 
basically gives us stretchings in the different directions. 
So I want to define this arc length and curvature for the fine case, as well. 
Now in order to do that, let me just talk a bit more of what is parameterization. 
So I can have a curve parameterized by p as before and can have it marameterized 
by r by a different parameter. The curve will basically be the same. 
By R or by P the parameterization is kind of telling me how fast are we traveling 
the curve. Remember if you take the derivative of 
the curve according to p you get the tangent vector with a certain magnitude. 
If you take the derivative according to R you get the same tangent vector same 
direction with a different magnitude. If you remember from basic physics 
derivatives are velocity. So you're only telling me how fast are 
you traveling the curve. But you're going from the same point to 
the same point. So it's like you are driving the highway 
between two points. And the speed that you drive is the 
parametrization. But the highway is the curve. 
The highway doesn't change. So when we take functions geometric 
functions basically of our sorry I want one more let me come back. 
When we take geometric functions of curve, they have to be invariant to 
parameterizations. The distance between two points in the 
highway does not depend on the velocity I travel on that highway. 
So the geometric measurements that we take have to be invariant to the 
parameterization, and they also have to be invariant to basically the 
transformations that we want to do, either rotations or affine 
transformation. So if you take a map and you rotate the 
map, the distance between two cities has to remain the same distance, not just 
because I'm looking at the map differently, it changes. 
It has to be invariant to that. So let's use this concept to define the 
arc length S that we saw before. Let's just explicitly define it now and 
we are going to do the same for the affine case. 
But let's start with Euclidean, so basically, only allowing four rotations. 
So here is what we have, and this diagram is very good. 
Assume that you have a curve going through here. 
And you're going to take a very infinitesimal, very small portion of that 
curve. So I have, I can draw a coordinate 
system, like here and have a, very small movement in the X direction, and a very 
small movement in the Y direction. And then because of Pythagoras, this is 
basically X direction is perpendicular to the Y direction. 
So we have that this distance is the square root of the X direction distance 
and the Y direction distance, each one of them square. 
Simple Pythagoras. So now I'm allowing to multiply and 
divide by DP. P is my general parametrization. 
So I multiply and divide by a small change in P. 
Remember we're basically talking about the curve going around here. 
So I'm going to just draw that, I have a curve and I move a tiny bit X, a tiny bit 
Y and I measure how much I have moved there. 
So I multiply and divide and this curve is CP. 
So I multiply and divide by DP, just a small variation in the parameterization. 
And that's basically quality. And now, I basically move this DP in, so 
I get DP squared. Okay? 
I move it in, but I move it inside a square root, so I 
have to square it before, so I get this, okay? 
This is DP stays and this is exactly the definition of the Euclidean distance, the 
local, basically distance of the vector, just basically the definition of that. 
So we got that DS is simply DP. If we want to get the arc length S, it's 
basically the integral of that. Okay? 
So this is the way to go basically from. A generic parameterization P to the 
particular one S in such a way that the derivative now basically is unit length. 
Always the derivative will be unit length. 
It will be a unit length vector. And then the general distance of a curve, 
the total distance, distance of a curve is the integral of everything from P 
equals zero to P equal one of CPDP, this is the definition of the length. 
And if you basically replace what we have here is the integral of DS from zero to 
the length so when your parmitrizing by s your not going from zero to one your 
going from zero to the length. Basically once again. 
This tells us how to go from every parameterization to A, so from every 
speed of traveling between two cities, if you're basically integrating the 
magnitude of that speed. Along the way you're getting kind of a 
unit length of traveling. And that's what then lead us to 
basically. The Euclidean curvature when we took 
basically second derivative. So this is for Euclidean. 
Now Euclidean rotations and translations preserve length, and that's why I could 
use length here. Now, in the affine case or in particular 
in the equi-affine case, length is not preserve anymore. 
What's preserved? Area. 
So I can take areas. Now, in order to take areas, 
I need two vectors. One vector does not define an area, I 
need two. So, I'm basically going to take the first 
derivative. It's always a tangent V is going to be 
now my affine arclength. So the first derivative is not the unit 
vector. That's a characteristic only when you 
take derivatives according to S, to the Euclidean arc length. 
So I take a first derivative, and a second. 
Again, these two vectors not perpendicular in general. 
That's a property only when you take derivatives according to arc length. 
And then I basically define the, I look at the area and I'm going to look for the 
parameterization V that when I take first derivative. 
Second derivative this area is equal to one. 
I define it that way and basically you can do all the math. 
We take, the first derivative is a vector, 
and the second derivative is a vector, and we put them here as vectors in a 2 by 
2 matrix. So remember, this is a vector, this is a 
vector, so we get the 2 by 2 matrix. It's of this form. 
It's basically. Let me write it down explicitly. 
X, derivative B, Y, derivative B, XVV, YVV. 
And that creates a matrix. And I'm going to ask for the determinate 
of this matrix the determinate of a matrix is the area of the parallelogram 
defined by these two vectors and now I'm giving you a new concept at, at. 
A, group of concepts that you might not be familiar with. 
But I am defining them on the way. So they, if I have a two x two matrix, 
this is a vector, this is a vector. The determinant of these is the area of 
the parallelogram between these two vectors, exactly what we have here. 
And I'm going to ask that to be equal to one. 
And remember for euclidean we ask the length to be equal to one here we ask for 
the area to be equal to one. I don't want to proof too many things to 
you but any parameterization p will give a new parameterization that holds this 
property following this integral. Okay? 
So that's a theorem. Just believe it for now. 
Now in particular, I can take p equal to the Euclidean arc length. 
That's allowed to do. So I can put cs and css. 
Now what are these two guys? This is unit length. 
Okay, unit length, and the second derivative in the case of 
the Euclidean arc length, is perpendicular to the first one, and it 
has basically length equal to curvature, Euclidean. 
So this is one, this is curvature. So, of course, this area is equal to 
curvature. So we get that V, the, a fine arc length, 
gets its. Obtain by the integral of the kregen 
curvature to the one third. The S. 
And therefore what we get is an extremely interesting relationship between the 
Euclidean arc length and defined arc length. 
So we have the Euclidean arc length coming from here and defined arc length 
and they're related by the Euclidean curvature. 
This is a beautiful relationship in differential geometry that relates 
Euclidean differential geometry with defined differential geometry. 
Now we have defined arc length, our next step is to find defined curvature. 
How do we do that in a very similar fashion as we did for the kleeant case if 
you remember in the kleeant case we started by basically doing the 
derivative. Of the property. 
That this was equal to one we say the length is constant and we took 
derivatives now we have to the area is constant when we use the fine arc length 
so here remember is a determinant of two vectors. 
And we're going to take the derivative. The derivative of the determinant is like 
any other product. We have to take the derivative of the 
first vector and then put the second and then the derivative of the second and put 
the first. So it's what we have here. 
The derivative of the determinant of these two vectors, cv and c, vv, is the 
determinant here, derivative of the first and we keep the second plus the 
derivative of the second and we keep the first. 
Now if we have a determinate with two identical columns that's zero so this 
basically is zero that's a very basic property of linear algebra. 
So we end up that the determinant here. Is equal to zero which means once again 
that these two vectors are parallel. When we took derivatives here, we 
basically had that. In their product to be zero, the two 
vectors have to be perpendicular. For the determinant to be zero, the two 
vectors have to be parallel. Another basic property again of linear 
algebra. So the first and the third derivative, 
when I'm taking derivatives according to defined arc length, these two vectors are 
parallel. So they are basically parallel. 
One for example goes in this direction. The other goes in this direction. 
The ratio between them. We define as defined curvature, the same 
way that we use the magnitude. of the second derivative, according to 
Euclidean arc length, we use this as Euclidean curvature, the ratio between 
these two parallel vectors is affine curvature. 
And it's not hard to show that this new, this affine curvature is an affine 
variant. What I mean is very simple if we take as 
we talk before, an affine transformation preserving area remember equi-affine. 
So we have a curve the boundary of a shape and we're taking a fine 
transformation. We compute the fine curvature of this 
shape as a function of the affine arc length of the shape. 
we do the same for the new curve. And voila, they're identical. 
So in the same way as we have Euclidean properties, with S and Kappa, Euclidean 
arc length and Euclidean curvature, we have them with the affine arc length and 
affine curvature. They're basically the same, and they 
completely identify the object, up to on a fine transform. 
So now you're an expert on planar differential geometry. 
You know the concept of arc length. It is particular parametrization that 
gives us some interesting property about the curve, like constant speed in the 
Euclidean case. or constant area in the affine case, and 
then from that, we got the curvature that is identical. 
For the Euclidean case, after rotations. For the affine case, after affine 
transforms. So those are very simple functions that 
uniquely identify shapes because they uniquely identify curves. 
Now our next step is basically, let's extend that a tiny bit to basically 
surfaces. And we're going to do that in the next 
video, and then you're going to have the basic 
tools of differential geometry to go and do the formations of curves and to do 
image processing and understand active contours. 
So I see you in the next video for that. Thank you.