Hello, and welcome back. 
We just finished learning about curve evolution. 
There's one thing that is missing that we need to learn. 
It's how do we implement curve evolution in the computer. 
We saw that curve evolution is important for example, to regularize curves with 
curvature motion, but even more important for active contours. 
And we need to learn, how do we implement in that friendly fashion that in a 
computer we have discrete images. So, we need to talk about the numerical 
implementation of that. one of the areas that has had a 
tremendous impact in image processing, in particular, when we talk about PDs in 
image processing, is level sets methods and I want to to explain that. 
And with that, we're going to know how we implement any type of curve or surface 
evolution in a computer. So what is all this theory, all this 
framework of level sets? So we have talk about curves and it's 
going to be the same for surfaces because it's much easier to present this for 
curves. We have talk about curves and curve 
representations. And we see that here, we have a curve 
that is parameterized and remember for every P, we have basically a different 
point on the curve. Now this is not the only way to represent 
curves. There's a very different way to represent 
exactly the same curve that is actually even more familiar when we are talking 
about shapes. And the basic idea is that instead of 
parameterizing the curve, we're going to represent the curve by all the points on 
the plane that hold a certain equation equal to zero. 
So let's look at this figure. We're going to put a coordinate system x 
and y and then we say every point in the curve is a point such that phi at that 
point is equal to zero. So we have to describe this function phi. 
And for example we can define the function to be positive inside and 
negative outside and one example is to define this as the distance to the curve 
for, for of course the distance to the curve at the curve itself is zero. 
The distance to the point itself is zero. So, every point on the curve has zero 
distance to the curve. Every point inside has a positive 
distance, and we define every point outside to be at negative distance. 
And that way, we define the function phi. That the zero set, that's called the zero 
level set of that function, meaning all the points in the plain where that 
function is zero define a curve. Let's look at a profile of this and we 
see that here. If I have a function that is positive inside and negative outside 
and I cross it with a line, then this is the profile. 
We're going from negative tp positive. So this region is positive. 
Then we go again outside, so we have negative again. 
And we go again inside and we go again outside. 
Now which are the points that belong to the curve. 
This point, basically, this zero. This point and this point and this point, 
every time the profile of five crosses the zero, that point belongs to the 
surface. In that way we are, belongs to a curve 
sorry or a surface if we are in higher dimensions. 
In that case, in that form we are defining a curve on the plane by all the 
points that hold this equal to zero. And these two are just two different 
representations of exactly the same curve. 
This is kind of painting inside the curve and painting outside the curve in such a 
way that along the curve that paint is equal to zero. 
Now. With this representation we have compute 
tangents, normals and curvature. We need to be able to compute it with 
this representation, otherwise, we won't be able to do curve evolution. 
So let's see how we do that. And we're going to prove a couple of 
things. As we have talked, this week is one of 
the most theoretical ones. But we are doing everything 
self-contained. So I'm explaining everything inside and I 
think we are learning a lot of new concepts. 
So let us show that basically if we define the curve as before at the zero 
level set of the function fee. The normal is the gradient of phi divided 
by the magnitude, actually, with a minus. That's a convention because I want the 
normal to point inwards. It's just a convention. 
And of course the tangent will be this. It's basically a perpendicular vector. 
Let's prove that, it's not hard to prove. So remember, we have the function phi and 
all the points that belong to the curve is where phi is equal to zero. 
So along the curve, phi is not changing. It's always zero. 
When I travel the curve, it's always zero. 
Then, the derivative of the function along the curve. 
Along the arc length. Because I'm traveling along the curve is 
equal to zero. Let's compute that derivative. 
So I want to take the derivative of this function. 
Remember, the function exists all over the plane, and I'm taking the derivative 
in the direction of the curve in the, with the arc length along the curve. 
Now, we have it here. This is just the chain rule. 
Basic calculus. So if I have to take the derivative 
according to s. It's the derivative according to x, 
x according to s, and the same for the y. So that's simple calculus. 
Now, what I wrote here is this inner product. 
Remember, the inner product of two vectors. 
So I'm going to write it here in case you don't remember. 
If I want to multiply two vectors a, b. I want to do the inner product, let's say 
with cd is a * c + b Time d. So this is nothing else, now the inner 
product of the gradient of phi with the time chain. 
Remember, xs, ys is the time chain, is the unit time chain. 
We say that a couple of years ago when we were talking about differential geometry 
curves of the plane. And phi x, phi y is just a gradient. So, 
this is what we have here. Now this is zero. 
Okay, we have it here. Of course this is the zero. 
So I'm going to go here. And, of course, I'm allowed to normalize. 
So here I have proof that the gradient of the curve is perpendicular to the 
tangent. Then I normalize the gradient. 
So if I have a vector that is perpendicular to another. 
Of course, any change in magnitude in the vector is still perpendicular. 
In particular I want to basically normalize it to have unit norm. 
And then I get this equal to zero. So if this is perpendicular to the 
tangent then this is the normal. So I have a perpendicular, this is the 
normal. And now once again, we as a convention 
put a minus because they, we want if we have positive and negative we want the 
gradient to point, to point basically we want the normal to point inwards. 
Once again, it's just a convention. So a very simple proof that basically 
shows that. This is the definition of a normal so 
having phi, I can complete the normal with absolutely no problem and of course 
I can complete the tangent just a perpendicular vector to it. 
And we have the first, actually we have two. 
The normal and the tangent. Now let us compute the curvature. 
And again a very simple computation as we have here. 
Just maybe two more steps and we get the curvature. 
So what we want to show is that the curvature, I only have phi, remember the 
curvature is the second derivative according to s. 
So the curvature was cssKN. equal kN. 
That's a curvature. This is, I want to compute. 
I don't have c. I have phi. 
I have c, the curve, the final implicitly by phi as its zero level set. 
And I want to prove that it's this formula. 
In case you don't remember what div is, div is a divergence. 
And the divergence of a vector alpha beta is basically alpha x + beta y. 
So it's a scalar. The first term of the vector, you take 
the derivative according to the first coordinate X. 
The second, according to the second coordinate, 
okay? Let us prove this formula right now. 
So now, we are basically, are still going along the zero level set so we still have 
this relationship. And let us exploit it now. 
We are going to compute the second derivative of phi along the curve with 
arc length. We just compute the first one in the 
previous slide when we're computing the normal. 
Now I want to compute the second derivative. 
So I have the first derivative and I want to take one more derivative. 
Now, once again, this was nothing else than the gradient in our product with T 
as we saw the previous one and I have to take a derivative. 
Remember derivative of a final product is the derivative of the first times the 
second plus the first times derivative of the second. 
Now what's the derivative of the tangent? Second derivative is curvature in a 
normal direction. So here it is. 
Curvature in a normal direction. So once again, derivative of the first 
one times inner product with the tangent and then the first one, inner product 
with the derivative of the second one, which is T. 
But we know that the derivative of T is kN and this basically is equal to zero. 
So what we have, so this is equal to zero, so what we have is that this turn 
is equal to minus distant and basically I wrote that here so this turn I can take 
the curvature outside, okay? 
That's not a problem. It's a scalar. 
I can take it outside of the inner product. 
That's the first thing we do. Oh, I apologize, there is here a typo, 
this should be a phi. Basically a kind of a capital phi, but, I 
apologize for that typo. We are going to continue. 
It's just that very easy to see that going from here I just made a typo. 
And we basically have the curvature goes outside, that's here, then we have this, 
again here. And the normal we just saw in the 
previous slide, is gradient divided by gradient. 
So we have curvature here. Now this product is the gradient square 
because I'm multiplying this by itself. So it's the gradient square divided by 
the gradient that cancel each other and I get only one gradient. 
So this turn. Is here, okay? 
This term I'm not going to write it down but by now you're an expert because we're 
just doing derivatives and chain rule. If you want to take the derivative of the 
gradient according to S, remember you have to take the derivative according to 
X and then XS plus derivative according to y, ys. 
So you do chain rule again and then you're going to get this expression. 
This expression is basically this derivative. 
And then the tangent once again we have from the previous one. 
Now we got this equality here if you now open this with this definition your going 
to see that is identical to here. Times this. 
And then we got basically the formula for the curvature of a curve that is 
represented in implicit form. Now pay attention this is extremely 
important this is going to be very important next when I explain the forming 
curves in level sets. I don't need to have the curve I don't 
know c. C, it's an implicit fashion define. 
All I need to know is phi and I take regular derivatives in each direction, in 
the Y direction. We know how to do that. 
So this is the x direction, this is the y direction. 
We know, we just take derivatives as we have been seeing many times in this 
class. This pixel minus this pixel or this pixel 
minus this pixel when we are taking derivatives in the Y direction. 
And we do that a number of times, just following this formula and we get the 
curvature. or we got the normal, or we got the 
tension, so it's much simpler, I don't have to go and take derivatives along the 
curve. I take derivatives in the grid, basically 
in the image. Really, really much simpler. 
So now we know the curvature, we know the normals. 
Do we know how to deform curves? Let's see about that. 
So the next step is to learn how to deform a curve. 
How to deform phi in such a way that the boundary, basically, is deforming as I 
wanted. So, we have a function that is 
representing a curve in implicit form. Okay? 
We know that the curve that is defined in this way, it's moving with this velocity. 
And we ask ourself, how do I have to change phi for the level 
set of phi to move according to this velocity? 
And it turns out that it is this form. And I'm going to prove to you here in 
just a couple of lines. But before we do that, please pay 
attention to what's happening here. The phi is once again, it lives on the 
image. It lives on the grid. 
Every time I'm talking about derivatives, I'm talking about derivatives on the 
grid. So the pixels are moving up or down. 
There's no derivatives on the curve which are very difficult to implement. 
This is like when, we know. We have seen how to compute a gradient. 
You know, again this minus this. We have seen those things. 
So implementing this is much easier than implementing this. 
Let us prove this formula. So, the basic idea is once again very, 
very simple. I'm going to take the derivative of phi 
according to T, okay? 
And this is where I'm going, I'm going to take the derivative 
according to T of this side, and the derivative according to T of this side. 
Now this side is zero. It's a constant. 
So the derivative of this side is also zero. 
Here it is. The derivative here, I wrote it here. 
And now once again chain rule, and this is what we have. 
The derivative of this function of x, y, t according to t is what I have written 
here. So I take the derivatives according to x, 
than xt plus the derivative according to y, yt plus derivative according to t. 
These are partial derivatives. So this is what I have. 
Okay, now. This I moved to the other side because I 
have a zero here and I get minus the derivative according to t equal to the 
right hand. So this part is equal to minus this. 
This we have seen before, okay? 
It's an inner product as we have seen already at least two times in the 
previous slides. So it's the gradient of phi because of 
this part and this part. And this xt yt is ct is basically my 
curve deforming. So we are here now. 
We have one more step. City, I know what it is. 
VN so I write VN. It's the motion of my curve exactly what 
I want. So, once again the V can come out because 
it is scalar and I have this. Now, remember, I want to write everything 
as a function of phi. That's the important part, 
okay? So, we just saw that the normal is minus 
the gradient normalized, okay? 
So, here we basically applied that. 
We replaced minus the normal by the gradient of phi, normalized, 
okay? And this as before is gradient times 
gradient, that's gradient squared, divide one gradient, we get one gradient. 
So this is gradient, this stays, and we got this and because there's a minus 
here. It counts as with the minus here and then 
we have that this is equal to this, which is what we wanted to prove. 
Okay? So once again, you can look at this, if 
you want to just you can pause the video now and look at the proof. 
There is nothing here but applying the chain rule, and then writing everything 
as a function of phi. That's the important part. 
we get that when we want to move a curve according to V in the normal direction. 
That's obtained by moving feet up and down, whatever this formula tells us and 
then we cut. So you want to go for t equal five, do 
this for t equal five, find the zero level set and you got the curve 
evolution. So everything now is in implicit form. 
We have functions defined on the plane and by moving those functions, we are 
moving the zero level set and we are getting curve evolution, for example, 
we're getting active contours. Why is this so important? 
Let me just illustrate a couple of ideas which I think will help us to illustrate 
how important this is. So remember, that sometimes when we 
deform a curve, the topology can change. I'm going to ask you, which was the curve 
motion that produces changes in topology, that might produce changes in topology? 
Is it the curvature motion, is it the fine motion, or is it the constant 
motion? We know that and we know that is the 
normal motion the normal motion can change topology. 
Now when the topology of a curve is changing if you discrotise the curve its 
very difficult to understand at this point that was neighbor of this point 
that was neighbor of this point actually ended up here. 
And this one ended up there and now there not neighbors anymore. 
They were neighbors once step before, but because of topological changes they're 
not anymore. And numerical analysis is very 
complicated, when those things happen, when neighvor things, neighboring things 
just stop being neighboring things. It's very, very complicated. 
Now when we are in this phi function, so imagine that this gray is the phi, and 
basically the two planes, the two green. Light green and dark green are just a 
different times you are cutting this feed function. 
The feed function is moving according to v gradient v. 
And all that I have to do is cut and be surprised if there is a topological 
change. I do not have to worry about 
connectivites. No worry at all, because I'm working on a 
grade, as I'm going to show here. So I don't have to work with particles 
and discretizer curve. And remember who is neighboring with whom 
and how the neighbor, the neighborhood is changing when there are topological 
changes. I don't have to do that. 
I'm basically working with phi defined on a grid, as we have it here. 
This is just another profile. And phi is changing. 
Phi t is V. gradient, 
gradient phi and that's it. So we discretize that the same way that 
we discretized before. It goes up, it goes down. 
An example you say, I want to know the state of the curve evolution right now. 
You just slice it. You look at every place where the current 
phi is equal to zero. You look at every coordinate or every 
coordinate here. If there is topological change or not you 
have to be aware of that. And that's the beauty of this and that is 
how the active counters that we talk at the end of the previous video is 
implemented with this where V is that velocity of active counters so V can be 
in a simplified fashion G curvature. Where G was this inverse gradient of the 
image or some function that makes it stop. 
So you want to implement active counters. All you have to do is phi t equal G 
curvature times the absolute value of the gradient. 
And we know that the curvature, previous slide, we can also compute as a function 
of phi. So everything is a function of this 
surface that is defined on the grid and that's the beauty of the level states. It 
simplifies the whole numerics. And with it we can implement the 
curvature motion, constant motion, constant motion is absolutely trivial. 
Let me write it here. Phi t equal gradient phi. 
So the gradient you might discretize the same way that we talked before. 
The pixel on the right minus the pixel on the center. 
The pixel on the top minus the pixel on the center. 
phi t, you discretize like phi of t + 1 - phi of t. 
Any type of time discretization. We're not discussing a lot of numeric 
analysis like just relatively standard numeric analysis that you can use to 
implement. Smart numeric analysis but relatively 
standard instead of having to discretize a curve. 
Very, very simple equations for as complicated as we want curve evolutions, 
curve motions. And I prove this only for curves. 
Happens the same four surfaces and actually, the formula is exactly the same 
formula. But phi is not function in higher 
dimensions so exactly the same formula. So, now you have the tools to do active 
contours. And we are going to actually see more of 
active contours later this week in some of the future videos. 
But you know curve evolution and you know how to implement curve evolution, as 
well. as I said we are learning a lot of new 
material and as I say, you can go back and recheck this video. 
The proofs are really, really two line proofs with basic calculus and algebra 
from very, very relatively simple calculus and algebra but you don't have 
to be aware of it. I just explain it to you during this video and during the 
previous videos. So we keep advancing and I'm going to see 
you again in the next video. Thank you very much.