Hello, and welcome back. 
I want to give you an example of a very particular and important application of 
partial differential equations and variation of formulations in image 
processing. And this will put together, some of the 
concepts that we have just learned, in a very, very simple fashion. 
So, what we are going to do is we're going to do histogram modification with 
partial differential equations. We know how to do histogram modification. 
We have learned that a few weeks ago. Now I'm going to show you how to do that 
with partial differential equations. The basic idea is, as we always do with 
partial differential equations. We want to deform the image towards a 
certain goal. In particular now, we want to change the 
contrast. We want to deform the image in such a way 
that improves the contrast, and we can start thinking about how to do that if we 
understand partial differential equations. 
We want to stretch the grey values of the image. 
Now, how we are going to do that? In this particular case, we're going back 
into histogram modification. We know how to do that. 
We learned that. It's just a simple map that we learned a 
few weeks ago. So here is how you do it with a partial 
differential equation, as an illustration. 
Here is the partial differential equation. 
You're going to deform the image, according to its own pixel value at the 
given pixel, minus the number of pixels that are great than u. 
So, you have an image, you're sitting at a certain pixel, and 
say How am I going to change these pixels? Very simple. 
You look at your own value, you look at how many values are above you, and you 
deform yourself according to that, to the difference between both of them. 
Now why is this doing the histogram modification? Very simple. Remember what 
we talked. Normally you deform the image equal to 
your goal. Now, when you get to steady state, these becomes 0. So the image 
becomes equal the pixel value at, of the image, becomes equal to the number of 
pixel values, above your own value. And this is exactly, if you go back to 
your notes on histogram modification, this is exactly histogram equalization. 
So this is a very interesting way to achieve histogram equalization. 
Instead of doing a look-up table, as we learned, we just slowly deform the image 
towards it. Now, you may ask yourself, why do I have 
to implement a partial differential equation that is computationally more 
expensive than just doing that look-up table? There's a couple of reasons. 
One, pedagogically, I'm giving you these as an example of a partial differential 
equation acheiving something that, we want to achieve like, exactly the 
condition for histogram equalization. Now, there is another reason. 
You might stop, this deformation, at any moment. 
In histogram equalization, you do the math. 
There is no intermediate solution. If that was too much contrast, then 
you're in trouble. There is no way, either, no way back 
either. The original image, or that. 
Here you can start stretching your histogram. 
Start moving towards histogram equalization. 
But you can stop before you finish that, if you are already satisfied with the 
result. Or even if that result is better than 
going all the way to histogram equalization. 
So those are examples of why you might want to do a partial differential 
equation instead of a lookup table. Now, of course. 
In the same way that you can do partial ? equations you can try to do this contrast 
enhancement by solving a variational problem. 
And here is an example of such a variational problem. 
Again the art here is for you to start putting terms in the variational problem 
that will help you to achieve your goal. So here is one term. Remember, what we 
try is to optimize for this, it's basically to minimize or to maximize, in 
this case, to minimize this energy. So this is a term that normally you put 
it in this kind of things, and here I'm assuming the image is between 0 and 1. 
It has been normalized, so the pixel values are between 0 and 1. 
You say, you know, I want the image to be nice. 
I don't want it just to be too far away from the average grey values, and that 
you achieve by this. On the other hand, you want contrast. So 
here is the contrast. You don't want the pixel values all to be 
together. If I don't have this term If I remove 
this term, the solution of this is a constant value equal to half. 
All the pixels values are in the middle all together. 
That's not what I wanted. I want them to be nicely distributed, as 
expressed here, but I also wanted contrast. 
And note that we have a minus sign here, and, because I want to encourage Fix the 
values to get far away. Now, I don't want them to go crazy far 
away, and that's why you add other types of terms. 
Now, we have integrals here, which is, where do I count these? Do I count it all 
around the image? Now, this is also part of your gain? You can say, hey, I'm 
going to just ask for these contrasts in certain regions of the image. 
So, you can do the integral only for certain regions of the image. 
Or you can say, I'm going to ask for this contrast only for certain. 
Ranges of pixel values. So you can actually become very creative 
in, designing, this variation of formulation, this same for this direct 
pd's. Something that you couldn't do when you 
had to look up table. It was like 1 to 1, from here to here, 
There's nothing in between. Here, it gives you a lot of flexibility 
to become very, very creative. So let's see some results of this. 
Here we have two examples. Contrast enhancement here. 
Now the interesting thing here, you might notice that basically, this is kind of 
localized. Every region, kind of move by itself, and 
there no mixing of the region, and these were achieved by playing with those 
eastern bound, boundaries, with those integration boundaries, sorry. 
And making sure that things that have similar pixel values, or in this case is 
exactly the same piece of values, kind of moves together. 
So, here's an example of an artificial image to illustrate how these variational 
formulations can give you contrasting enhansements that preserve the shapes of 
the image. And here is another example of a natural 
image. I hope you can appreciate that through 
the video, that this is a very dark image, and here you have much vivid 
colors, a much nicer looking image. And this 2 examples are acheived with 
these PDEs, or variations and formulations. 
Those are two different, and one gives you some capabilities, the other gives 
you another capabilities, and playing with the integral limits and playing with 
the terms inside the integrals, you can start achieving the kind of application 
that you want for this type of contrast enhancement. 
So I hope you enjoyed this example. It illustrates both the concept of PD's, 
that we can almost achieve any condition that we want if we run the PD to steady 
state, and also it illustrates how we can design variational formulation For an 
extremely important application that is Contrast Enhancement. 
Thank you very much. Looking forward to seeing you in the 
future videos.