Hello, and welcome back. 
As such I just mentioned in the previous video we are going to now see a few 
examples of image and video processing. That's going to help us to understand 
basically, what is image and video processing. 
And it's also going to provide a few examples of the material that we are 
going to learn during these nine weeks. So let's dive right in. 
And we're going to start with an example in scientific images. 
Scientific images are images that are taken with a scientific goal. 
We want to do some science with those images. 
And there's probably no better example than images from Mars. 
So we're all very excited when we get the images. 
From the NASA JPL expedition to Mars. These are really cool images, 
and we're seeing something that we have never seen before. 
Now, these images take a lot of space in the computer in the Mars Rovers. 
They actually take a long time to transmit to Earth, because they are very, 
very large. So, NASA and JPL had to implement 
something inside the Mars Rovers, something which is called image 
compression, to preserve the information, but try to make that occupy less space, 
so it is faster to transmit. We're going to learn. 
We're actually going to learn the algorithm that was implemented in the 
Mars Rovers. I was lucky enough that one of my 
algorithms was selected to be implemented in a Mars rover. 
So we're going to learn it, pretty much in detail. 
But of course, this is not the only example, you know, about image 
compression. If you use the digital camera, most 
digital cameras today use image compression. 
If you're looking images over the web, you're basically using image compression. 
Actually when you are watching this video, this video is being compressed 
before it's uploaded to the web so you can enjoy it. 
So we're basically doing image and video compression all the time. 
So that's one example that in your daily life, 
you're already seeing image and video compression. 
There's another very important example, and it comes in the movies. 
If you go to the movies, you're probably have seen, 
you might not be aware, but you have seen image and video 
compression. Let me give you an example. 
So here we have an image. This is basically one frame of a video. 
It's a very famous video and what we, very famous movie and what we see here 
these are two consecutive frames so, one coming right after the other and we see 
here that the actor is basically holding a glass, 
and right after, he is holding a plate. That's very surprising, how he switched a 
glass to a plane, that's actually a, to a plate. 
That's actually a mistake in the movie. Here is another example, that we 
basically see the camera, the cameraman is in the picture. 
Of course, the director didn't want the cameraman in the picture, 
but it is. And actually, if you saw the movies, 
when they just came out and you pay attention to them you actually might have 
been able to see the cameraman or to see this mistake. 
There's actually mistakes in almost all the movies, and there's a website that 
shows them. And basically if after that you go and 
see basically the DVD or different versions of the movie, these repairs, 
these, these mistakes were repaired. And how were they repaired with something 
called image and video in painting. And we're going to learn about that. 
But let's see a few additional examples. Because sometimes we need to repair 
images and videos, not just for the movies. 
So for example, here is a picture that looks perfectly fine to us. 
It's actually a picture of Stalin. And so here we have Stalin. 
We see nothing wrong with this picture. The only problem with this picture, this 
is not an original picture. This was a picture that was inpainted by 
hand, because actually what really happened was this. 
This is the real picture. There was another person here, 
that the picture was retouched, and this time, it was done long time ago. 
It was done by hand. It was retouched, so that the person is 
no longer in the picture. But, actually today we're going to learn 
how to do that with basically computer techniques. 
Let's see other examples, because this is very exciting and also there is a website 
which we provide those details in, in the class web page that provides a lot of 
examples like this. This is really a fine area. 
So, here is a frame of a Monty Python movie, and as you see its scratches are 
being made to disappear. So, sometimes, you have a very nice image 
that somebody scratch in it, and you want to make those scratches disappear. 
What you are seeing now is a simulation for real image processing algorithm that 
is making that scratch slowly disappear. And that's going to be part of what we're 
going to learn. We talked about image compression, that's 
going to be about the second week of this class. 
Imaging painting and medium painting is going to be towards the second half of 
the class. Let's see more examples. 
Here we see a perfectly nice video, this is one of my former students, Keller, 
walking in front of the library at the University of Minnesota. 
Doesn't look like anything strange in this video. 
Only that this was the actual video. Actually, killers wife was walking in 
front of him, then we applied, image and video processing algorithms, to 
make her disappear from the video. Sometimes we want to get special effects 
in videos. So this is an example of special effects. 
We actually start from a black and white movie. 
And here we see a few frames of that black and white movie. 
We provide a few hints of some color that we want to add to the video, and here is 
the automatic result. Just from hints, actually in this case in 
just one frame, we get a colorized movie. So it's like we're in painting but we're 
in painting colors into the movie, just on our special effect. 
Special effects are all over, and you need a lot of image and video processing 
to do them. So here is another example. 
Let me run it first, so it's easier for me to explain the special effect. 
At first you see kind of blurry. This looks like a blurry video. 
But look what's going to happen. We actually have the players, actually 
are shot. The movie was blurry, the background was 
blurry, but not the players. So let me just try to run it again, so we 
can see that even better. So it's blurry, but the players are not. 
And we have to do video processing to be able to get that special effect. 
Here is yet another example of special effect. 
I'm going to run it, and you're going to see basically, immediately what type of 
special effects we mean here. We see that the movie's running, but 
basically the girl, the lady in the movie is actually being repeated. 
Okay, and so it's very easy to observe that 
here we see repetitions of what's happening. 
And that's a very special effect that is used a lot in the movie industry, 
especially sometimes for marketing and advertising. 
Let me show you yet another example of some really, really interesting special 
effects. And this is here. 
So this is a movie. Once again we run the movie. 
Looks really nice. But actually, after we've finished that 
movie, we might actually want to change the background. 
So here is the same movie, with a different background. 
Wow. This is a lot of work. 
As we are going to see. The basic idea is we're going to have to 
be able to segment out this person. That's a foreground. 
That's what we want to keep in the movie. We're going to have to find it. 
We're going to have to extract it from the movie and put it in a new background. 
That's a really fun thing to do. I'm going to run this again. 
Here is one movie. Same movie, with a different background. 
We're going to learn about week five. What, 
how to do that, how to extract objects from still images 
or from movies. And actually these type of things show up 
in commercial products. In this case I am showing you a screen 
shot of what is called aftereffects, is one of Adobe products. 
And we actually, in collaboration with Adobe and one of my former students, we 
develop what I just showed you which are techniques to extract objects, 
so we can basically put them in your backgrounds. 
And I am going to explain to you exactly, as many details as I can provide in a 
relatively short video. I'm going to show you how this is done 
inside After Effects in Adobe, some of the underlying technology that 
appears there. So these are just some examples of image 
and video processing. We started from image compression. 
The NASA Rovers have to have image compression. 
Your digital cameras have to have image compression. 
The video that you're watching now, has to be compressed before it's uploaded to 
the web. And we're going to see in the first week 
of class why, why images occupy so much information. 
In the second week, we're going to learn how to compress them. 
We also saw special effects like imaging painting, 
which we are going to see towards the second half of the class. 
And we saw special effects like segmentation and changing background. 
And that, we are going to see around week five. 
So a lot of really exciting applications. Some of them, you are very familiar from 
the movies, from your digital cameras. Some of them. 
You actually see everyday, but you're not really aware that they are happening. 
And I'm going to help you to basically understand that they are actually 
happening, behind the scenes. And what we are going to do in the next 
movie, we are going to give a few additional examples to further motivate 
you, the importance of image and video processing and also how much fun it is to 
understand what's happening behind the scenes with images and videos. 
We are also going to talk in the next video a few examples of medical imaging, 
an extremely important area in image and video processing. 
So, I am looking forward to seeing you in the next video. 
Thank you.