Welcome back to the Image and Video 
Processing class. In the previous video, we saw a number of examples that show 
what image and video processing can do for us. 
Now we are going to see a few additional examples. 
We're going to start again from consumer images, images of the type that you are 
familar with, and then we're going to move to a couple of examples of medical 
imaging, an area where image and video processing has been extremely successful 
and a very important area by itself. So once again, a couple of additional 
examples of consumer images and videos. So this is a very interesting example of 
what video processing can do for us. Let us watch this movies for a second. 
So here we have two kids in one video and two kids in another video doing exactly 
the same activity. We want the computer to automatically 
identify that, although, these are very different people, very different 
backgrounds, in completely different jumping gear, 
and a house in one, and no house in the other in the background. 
We want to make sure the computer understands that in spite of all those 
different things, the activity is the same activity. 
Kids keeps jumping. We want the computer to actually be able 
to say that that activity is very different than this one, 
which is actually a person playing with a ball, but this particular one should be 
identified to be exactly the same at this other one, which is another person 
playing with a football. So, we want the computer to automatically 
classify these videos for us based on what activity is happening in the videos. 
Let's just see another very interesting example. 
I'm going to play this video in a second. If you see different frames surrounding 
the person, so green and red, that would mean that 
the computer has identified that basically the person is doing a different 
activity. If you see exactly the same color of the 
frame, so maybe both green or both red, means that the computer has automatically 
identified that the person is actually doing the same activity or the same type 
of activity. So let's watch this movie. 
So different colors, that means different activities. 
And now, same colors, meaning same activities. 
And one more example. In this case, we actually have three 
different persons at, at three different rows and we have in the left, the grand 
truth. That happens very often in this type of 
[INAUDIBLE] in image and video processing where you know what you expect, so you 
can verify if your algorithms are working properly. 
On the right, we actually have the actual recite of the algorithm. And once again, 
if you see frames of the same color, mean, means that in spite of the fact 
people are the different people, that computer has identified that they are 
doing exactly the same activity. If you see different frames, different 
colors, means the computer has identified they're doing different activities. 
So let's just watch the movie. So look that three of them are green and 
now this move to yellow which means that the computer understood that the person 
changed his or her own activity, move from running to jumping. 
So that's another thing that we want the computer to do for us, to identify what's 
happening in the images. Sometimes we actually want much simpler 
things. For example, here, we might just want 
these very poorly acquire image to become this very nice image. 
This is something that happens to us all the time. 
We take an image that is not, it doesn't look as good as we want it to look. 
For example, this, this is an extreme case, We're going to understand what 
happened actually in this image and we want to automatically, after we have 
taken the image, we don't want to go back and take again that image. 
We actually want the computer do automatically for us give us a very nice 
image. These aren't just examples of things we 
are familiar with. A more complicated example is here, yet 
another movie, but basically what we want is to be able to identify everything that 
is happening in the movie. This is sometimes called computer vision 
and not image processing, although, the two areas are close really, really, 
really close related and we are going to discuss that during the next coming 
weeks. All this has been about consumer imaging. 
Image and video processing, in particular, image processing, but also a 
bit more in these recent days and recent years, video processing is extremely 
important in medical and biological images. 
And let me give you a couple of examples that are very exciting applications, 
where image and video processing can actually make tremendous impact in 
society and health. So this is a particular application. 
We're going to talk about this application, actually, the last week of 
the class. And, this is a particular application 
that is related to neurosurgery. I'm going to describe this application 
again, as I said, in the last week of this class. 
But the basic idea is that the neurosurgeon implants in the brain an 
electrode and sends some excitation to that electrode, 
and this is extremely important for many, many problems, like Parkinson, tremor, 
depression or or, or other problems. But a fundamental problem is that a 
neurosurgeon needs to see inside the brain, 
needs to know where he or she is going inside the brain. 
And in order to do that, we actually, in order to know where to implant the 
electrode, and where exactly to go. The neurosurgeon will take images of our 
inside of the brain through MRI, CT, or other disciplines, and try to get a map, 
try to get basically what we see from Google Maps or from other images. 
They want to know, have a map from inside our brain. 
So they want to be able to know everything that is happening in our brain 
here. So one of areas that they want to implant 
electrodes, we find it here. So, this is the, this fancy and beautiful 
in color images that you see here is a combination of multiple modalities that 
are used to look inside our brain. They are put together with techniques 
that we are going to discuss, and then, you can create these beautiful 
images that localize and also tell you how different parts of the brain are 
actually connected. Once you do that, you can actually map, 
as I mention, you can actually map the brain and understand these are actually 
electrodes that were implanted and you can localize where exactly is the 
electrodes are touching in the brain. So it's really seeing inside our head and 
a lot of image processing needs to go behind this to make this possible. 
And, as I say, this is a very exciting area, because the contribution of new 
image processing here is tremendous. Similarly, we can look HIV research. 
Again, we're going to discuss this more, at the end, the last week of class. 
We're going to have entire lecture of this particular problem and the image 
processing challenges. So this is a, basically a virus and this 
is a schematic of an HIV virus. And for reasons that we're going to discuss 
later, we need to identify the actual shape of this, 
this is schematic. You might say, why is this so difficult? 
I'm going to show you that in just a second. 
The basic, idea is that we need to be able to identify that what I've just 
marked to you looks like this. This is a three-dimensional rendering of 
exactly that what's marked in the picture as the gp120 and the gp41. So that's what 
called the envelope and that's a very important part of the virus that a virus 
uses to basically latch into the next cell and identifying that shape is, is 
very, very important. What's behind the scenes? 
So why is this so difficult? Because actually what you get is images 
like this. basically this is what the schematic of 
what I showed you before, and these are, these small envelopes I 
showed you before. Okay? 
And from images like this one, you need to be able to do reconstructions like, 
like the ones I'm showing you now. Okay? So this is basic science that has a 
tremendous potential contribution into the development of vaccines or the 
understanding of different viruses. Finally, sometimes image processing, as 
we saw that, that it can help neurosurgery can help others kinds of 
surgery to make them safer. This is a particular application where 
it's important to understand where the esophagus is. 
So, cardiac ablation which is a very common surgery, 
when it's done, it avoids basically touching it and maybe damaging it. 
So once again, in our application of image processing, which we're going to 
discuss during this week. We are going to discuss different type of 
applications. We're going to touch on some of them. 
We won't be able to touch on all the medical imaging applications out there, 
but we're going to touch enough to give you an idea of why image processing is so 
important in the area of medical imaging and biological data. 
So to conclude, we have, in these two videos, we have seen a large number of 
examples going from scientific data from Mars to consumer videos and images like 
in the movies or like images that you, we take with our own cameras all the way to 
medical imaging. And we're going to discuss during the 
next, nine weeks starting with this week, the basic techniques that we need to be 
able to achieve all what, we've just seen that we want or we need to do with 
images. So, see you in the next video.