Hello, and welcome back to our Image in 
Video Processing class. In the first two videos in this class, we 
saw numerous examples that I hope that by now help you to understand the longer 
title of this class, From Mars to Hollywood with a Stop At the Hospital. 
We have seen applications of all of them. So those examples. 
Were useful to motivate us, and to understand, what is image and video 
processing? What are we expecting to learn in this 
class? So let me just now spend only just a 
couple of minutes giving you some logistics. 
We're going to have nine weeks of class, including this week. 
And each week is going to be self contained. 
I'm going to start a new topic, and I'm going to finish that topic during that 
week. Every week is going to have a number of 
short clips. So there is not going to be, like, a two 
hours movie. But there is going to videos that are 
short. So there's going to to be a natural 
stopping and restarting turn. Time, in case that you need to come back, 
or you need to stop, and you can't watch all of the movies at the same time. 
Every week, we are going to have quizzes. Those that want to get their certificate 
will need to do the quizzes. But some of you might just be interested 
in watching the videos without having to do the quizzes and you're more than 
welcome to do that if you're not interested in the certificate. 
In the quizzes, there's going to be also some recommended computer exercise. 
Those are not going to be mandatory, but if you have time, I do recommend that you 
do as many as possible. So you can experiment yourself, with all 
the techniques that we are learning during this class, during this nine 
weeks. One more thing I want to mention is that 
there's a lot of information on the website for this class: Recommended 
books, links to web sites, and additional material that we are going to be 
incorporating during the class if you want to expand beyond the material 
provided by these videos. Finally I should mention that about half 
of the class the first four to five weeks I'm going to be on basic material, 
fundamental material that is still very important today. 
And the second half of the class, the last four weeks, more or less, are going 
to be more advanced material, basically, some of the topics that image processing 
is about today. Basically the kind of leading research 
that you can find in universities and companies. 
So, this is it, regarding the logistics, and I will see you in the next video, 
where we are going to start with some new material on image and video processing. 
Thank you.