Hello. 
In the first two videos in this class, we saw a lot of examples of images. 
If you manage to see behind me, I wrote, images are everywhere, 
images are everywhere. And, I want to show you a few additional 
examples just to make clear, that almost any area you're interested on or you're 
working on, images are part of that area. So let's just illustrate something that 
is important to understand some of the slides that I'm going to be using next 
and I'm going to use this image that basically is the, beautiful image is 
basically the first picture that was taken by a US spacecraft of the moon. 
So the image was taken from the, from this spacecraft and basically, some of 
the, slides that they're going to be using, you're going to see that half the 
cover of the book. And, basically, the title of the books, 
one of the books that we recommend in the website for this class. 
And often, also the captions from that figure. 
So a lot of the material, a lot, a lot of the images on the slides for the first 
few weeks of the class are taken from this book. 
And then, and basically, this will help you to go in case you have the book or 
you have access to a library with the book. 
You can go. And look at the images, and the material 
around it. At the book, not only from my video 
lectures. So, let us continue with different 
examples of images. One important thing that I want to 
illustrate is that we are mostly familiar with images that we can see with our 
naked eye. But these are actually a very, very small 
part. Just these very, very small part of this 
spectrum. Images actually can be captured. 
In much, much larger spectrum as you can see here. 
Really, really the images that we take with our cameras are a very, very small 
portion of the whole spectrum. And let me just give you a few examples 
of that. For example, these are examples from 
X-rays and its X-ray imaging. Some of it we are very familiar. 
When we hear about X-ray we normally have this in mind. 
But X-rays are also used, for example, as we can see here for the inspection of 
printed circuits. Actually one of the most. 
Successful areas of image processing is in the automatic inspection of, 
basically, every. Printed circuit, every computer, every 
piece of electronic that gets to our homes. 
We can have also ultra-violet imaging as we can see here, 
different examples. We can have also light microscopy 
imaging. This is normally used a lot in, for 
biological images. But not only. 
Once again we see microscopic imaging used for the inspection of printed 
circuits. So we see here that similar applications 
actually use imaging in different parts of the spectrum. 
These are satellite images so movality called land satile basically they take 
images in, in different spectral bands and eh, this are very important for 
numerous applications as well. Here is another satellite image. 
Same technology, same type of technology, not exactly the same technology. 
But same type of technology for a very different application. 
The previous slide was for example, to understand the material in the grade 
here, is basically to track a hurricane. We have also satellite images of the 
Americas and this illustration is to basically just help you locate in the map 
where are these images from so here we have this region. 
And, of course we have, the natural images that we are used to see, basically 
images that we can take with our cameras and then we can look at them with our, 
own naked eyes. And once again, those are used for 
numerous applications coming again, printed circuit applications, inspection, 
for example of different, manufacturing processing or, different kind of 
applications, of course our own images. This is just, you know picture of a 
dollar bill or a picture of a license of a car, all these taken with the same type 
of technology, but really, for very, very different applications. 
And once again, it's very important to understand, that there is not only a 
large variability in the type of images that we can acquire. 
But sometimes we use multiple to acquire the same. 
Image and obtain different information the different modalities will give us 
different information about the same scene. 
So we are looking we are observing the same scene by with different modalities 
with different cameras to save in one word and we can obtain different types of 
information. This is ultrasound, another basically 
spectrum of the type of images that we can acquire, and we are normally very 
familiar with this type of technology. And yet, on our type of images that we 
can acquire. And finally, the last example I want to 
give you in this very, very large ensemble and very broad ensemble of 
images, are basically artificial images that are being created in the computer. 
Normally, the image processing that is done for these type of images is very 
different than the image processing that is done for images that are acquire. 
And then, and then, enter it into the computer. 
We're not going to be talking a lot in this class about basically images that 
were created in the computer from scratch. 
We're going to be talking about images that were basically were acquired and 
then enter into the computer for some analysis for processing. 
So these are just some examples. And now what we're going to do next is 
basically go inside and understand the basic components of images. 
What are pixels and how images are manipulated. 
And we're going to already see some examples of very simple processing in 
images, but still very useful ones.