We're going to now talk about how an 
image is represented in the computer, how a color image is represented in the 
computer, and how a video is represented in the 
computer, and the very important concepts of 
sampling, and representation, and quantization. 
It's always very good to have in mind the images that we normally take with our 
cameras. But please remember, while we see here 
and we talk a few videos ago that images that we are familiar with is just a very 
small part of the spectrum of images that we can acquire at different wavelengths 
and with different modalities. And the concept of something in 
quantization are relevant for basically all of those modalities, we always going 
to have to sample, we are always going to quantize. 
But again, it's good to have in mind when we talk about these different ideas, how 
they apply to the images that we are most familiar with, which are the images from 
our own digital cameras. So, the basic idea is as follows. 
We may say half light, basic error reflecting on the objects, 
and the light that is reflected on the objects goes into the camera. 
And, what we have are sensors in the camera as we can see here. 
Remember, in our eyes, we have the retina and the retina have the cones and rods, 
those were the sensors. In digital cameras, we have sensors, 
exactly the same way as we have sensors in our eyes. 
So, this is just one example of a sensor. The energy is coming in, 
there are filters, and then basically, the energy is 
acquired and is transmitted. So, the energy is sent and transmitted. 
And normally, what we are going to have on a regular camera is the 
two-dimensional array of these sensors. So, each one of these is going to be one 
of these. Okay? 
And normally, they are arranged in a square or rectangular fashion as we see 
it here. So, we have actually kind of a discrete 
number that's when we go and buy each of the cameras, 
we hear that this is about 1,000 x 1,000. It means, we're actually going to talk a 
bit more about that in a second. It means that we have 1,000 sensors in 
this direction, 1,000 sensors in this direction, 
so a total of a thousand square sensors. So, once again, light is reflecting 
objects, is projected into the camera, and is sensed by the camera, 
but all the process has a step of discretization. 
Some of you might be more familiar than others with this. 
Those of you that took classes in, in digital signal processing and are aware 
of A to D converters. This would be very simple and very familiar to you, 
but let's just review it for those that are not so familiar with the concepts. 
So, we see here the light represented here, is reflected from the object and it 
goes into the sensing device. Think about your digital cameras. 
So this is a blown-up of what we have back here. 
It looks, the object is continuous space, everything is continuous, but we actually 
get a discrete representation of that object and the discretization applies in 
two different directions. One is a spatial discretization. 
So we have a discrete number of sensors here, and basically the light. 
One of the simplest modes is that we integrate, each one of these integrates 
the light arriving to it, so that's a discretization in the space. 
There's also discretization in the amplitude. 
We're not going to be able to capture every single level of gray, every single 
level that is reflected from the object, but we're going to have to discretize it 
as well. So let's see. 
Let's talk a bit more about that. This is the object as we actually see it. 
And let, let's just look at one line. I cross this object. 
So, we see that there it has different values, it goes from white to gray. 
So let's just now draw the profile which is what we see here. 
So it's very light, white, and then it becomes a bit dark, and if we see here, 
let me just erase this so we can basically see it more clearly. 
If we go around, I'm going to just mark it here. 
If we're going around, we see that it's going for white then it's dark, 
then it just becomes brighter a bit, and goes down again, 
and then it's white again. So it has kind of these profile. 
High is white, then it go dark, and then it goes up, down, and then it becomes 
white again. Of course, it's not perfect. 
It has some noise. Even when we go and buy paint and paint a 
wall, basically, we think that it's exactly the same color. 
But it's actually not. It has some small variations, which are 
represented here. So again, there are two processes 
happening here. One is sampling. 
We are going to basically look at the values at certain discrete intervals. 
We are not going to have the values all around. 
We are going to have it at certain intervals. 
Okay? That's one discretization. 
The second discretization is, we're not going to be able to represent every 
single possible value here. We're going to basically just represent a 
few of them. We're going to round them. 
So let's just give an example. A very simple illustration on how can we 
round? Let's say that we see the value, 17.5. 
So basically we see that this is the value that is representing a particular 
gray value here. So how can we round this? 
One way is just to truncate it like this. And then basically say, you know, I know 
that what came into the sensor is 17.5, but actually I'm going to represent it by 
17." Okay? So, there are more ways of doing this and 
we are going to talk in more detail about quantization. 
This is simply this conversation in this direction of the great value is called 
quantitation. We could also consider, for example, if 
we had 17.5 as before, we could actually divide it by 2. 
Take this and multiply by 2. So basically we divided by 2, then we 
round, and then we multiply by 2. And I'm just going to ask you, as a very 
simple exercise, what's this value? And what will happen if you're still 
dividing by 2, we basically for example, divide by 4. 
Round down, and then multiply by 4. And I'm going to have you think about 
this, as a simple aromatic operation, we're going to discuss a lot about this 
particular operation in the chapter on quantization. 
But to recap, we have two ways of sampling. 
One is the, two ways to get ways of discretization. 
One is sampling in the spatial domain, and the other is quanitization in the 
gray values. So, the basic idea is that while we have 
started from a continuous object that basically lives in the whole space and 
has multiple gray values, we end up with a discrete object that has 
discrete, discretization both in the spatial domain and also in the gray 
values. The whole idea of good digital cameras is 
to have a dense enough sampling here, and very, very fine level of 
quantization, so we don't notice that everything is discrete. 
But it's actually, it is discrete. So we have pixel values, 
each one of these is called a pixel. This comes from picture, 
element, and is denote as pixel. 
And actually I'm going to just, if you want to Google or you want to search on 
the web a bit, I'm going to just, you might find it 
entertaining to find out who basically was the first person to use the term 
pixel. It's actually a very famous statistician 
and you can have fun looking for that on the internet or discuss about that on in 
the blogs when you find out about that. So, everyone of these is discrete, 
both in space and is discrete also in its grey values. 
And that's how we get pixels. And once again, the more we have of this 
and the more we have of the levels, the better the image it is. 
So, regular images will be, for example, 256 x 256 spatial domain. 
That will means that it will have 256 square pixels and maybe it's represented 
by 8 bits. So every pixel, is represented by 8 bits, 
which means that it can have, it's can represent 256 different gray values and 
we are going to see how important this is. 
Both the spatial discretization and the quantization of gray values are extremely 
important. We can have better images, 
for, let me just go back. We're going to have, for example, we 
might have an image that has, instead of 256 x 256, it might have 512 x 512 and 
still 256 letters. So it's going to take more memory to save 
that image, but it's going to have a better quality. 
And once again, when you're buying digital cameras, they normally tell you a 
lot about this number, how many pixels it has, 
and that tells you how fine the sampling is. 
We want a lot of pixels, so they are so close to each other, that 
we, that we can actually believe that it's a continuous domain and the same at 
the level of the grey values. So, once again, one, each one of these is 
a pixel and it's represented by gray values. 
Now this is a black and white image. We actually, in our cameras, we have 
color images. Color images are represented by three of 
these images. One for red, 
one for green, and one for blue. 
So basically the cameras acquire, I'm going to explain a bit more about that in 
a second, acquire three images. One represents the blue colors, how much 
blue there is in the scene, the other represents the green, 
and the other represents the red. And this is called red, 
green, and blue, so you often going to hear images which 
are R, G, and B. I should make one comment about this. 
Most low-end to mid-end consumer cameras, they actually don't really capture full 
two-dimensional rays for each one of the colors. 
So we would like to have each one red, green and blue. 
So that's what we would like to have red, green, 
and blue. That would be the ideal scenario and the 
more expensive cameras actually do that, basically they capture three full images. 
Most consumer cameras, if you buy a low-end digital camera, actually does 
something slightly different, something that is called mosaic. 
And the basic idea is that it capture the pixels with interleaving in the colors, 
will capture out a red, a green, a red, a green, and so on. And here, it will 
capture a red here, a blue, blue, 
red, and so on. So the next one will be red, green, red, 
green. The next one will be blue, red, blue, 
red. So actually, it's not having the triple 
the amount of pixels, is actually having one pixel red, one green, one red, one 
green. From this, we are going to have to 
interpolate and that we're going to learn how to do those things in the 3rd and 4th 
week weeks in this class. We're going to have to go, because to 
represent a full color image at every pixel, we're going to have to go red, 
green and blue. So, we do have the red, we're going have 
to create, somehow the green and blue, and that's down from the neighboring 
pixels. Here, we have the green, we are going to 
have to create the red and the blue. So, we are going to have to complete the 
three channels to be able to see a color image. 
When you buy a digital cameras, they actually normally tell you the size on 
this which is the size after it have done that population, although, they as they 
as they say the regular consumer images capture this. 
So they actually capture 1/3 of the data that they tell you that they're giving to 
you, that the data they tell you they're 
giving to you has been interpolated from what has been captured. 
So we have discrete images. We have a red, green, and blue channels. 
We're going to think about them as red, green, and blue so we already went from 
this representation to the interpolated, by the way this is called mosaic. 
So that's how color images are created. Now, how are videos? 
So this is how you have a color in your, an image in your computer. 
You have three channels, three arrays of two dimensional discrete values, one for 
red, one for green, one for blue. So what happened with videos? 
Videos basically repeat this. So one image has, red, 
green, and blue. And what happen in video, you have 
multiple of these. For example, for one second of video, in, 
in some of the formats you're going to have 30 of these. 
So you're going to have 30 x RGB and each one of these, remember, is one of these 
two-dimension structures. So basically, if you are having, if you 
want to have one second of video in your computer, you'll have 30 * 3 images. 
30 images in 1 second and 3 because you have three colors. 
So in 1 second, you're going to have 90 images of this type to represent 1 second 
of video. And, of course, 90 images, so let's say 
90 images at the resolution of 512 x 512, each an 8 bits each. 
So this is what you need to represent at relatively very low resolution. 
This is not very high resolution, this is pretty standard, but basically this is 
what your going to need to represent 1 second of a video in your computer. 
By the way, it's just saying that it's 3 * 8 bits, three times because we have 
[INAUDIBLE] bits. Sometimes people will say that our 
resolution is 24 bits, so we use 24 bits to represent basically 
a pixel. Okay? 
So this is how you have. If you go now to a computer that knows 
how to deal a program that knows how to deal with images you're going to see 
basically two-dimensional discrete arrays as many as seconds or frames you have in 
your image. It's one of these 30, it's called a 
frame, and you have 30 of this in a second or 30 images. 
When we talk about still images, with we talk normally about images, when we talk 
about videos, each one of these we call it a frame. 
So this is how your images are represented. 
Let's just look a bit more about how important and what are the effects of 
your resolution in space, on your resolution in gray values. 
Meaning, how many pixels you're going to have and what are the gray values that 
you're going to use for them. So, this is again the same type of 
representation. This is how 1 color of 1 image, or 1 
color of 1 frame is represented. If you have the letter D, then these 
pixels are 0. When we have 8 bits, 
normally 0 is black and 1 or 256, 255, actually is white. 
So if you are going with 8 bits, you can go from 0 to 255. 
0 is black, 255 is white. Sometimes at 255 is called 1 if you want 
to talk about the interval between 0 and 1. 
So, although, you see this, actually the computer is represented by a 
bunch of 0 for the black region. Then, let' say that this region is in the 
middle of the gray value, it would be an equivalent of a 128 value 
or a 0.5 value. So we see here 0.5 and then 1 for 
basically the white. So this is your discrete representation 
of this image in the computer. Okay? 
At every pixel, you have a discrete value. 
Now, sometimes, one of the things that happen is because you have only 256 
different levels that you can use. Sometimes your image is too bright and 
you might not be able to represent the small variations in brightness, there. 
Remember, the human visual system can basically adapt to multiple level, 
multiple levels of brightness, but not all of them at the same time. 
The same for an image. We can capture many, many levels, maybe 
256, but if we have to deal with a very dark 
region and a very light region at the same time, we are in trouble. 
And sometimes, the very small variations in this light region, we're not going to 
be able to capture and that's called saturation. 
So, it's going to look all white because it all got to the 255, 
maybe it was above 255. We want it to be above 50, 
255 because it was very bright. So that happens very often, 
we take images and sometimes we see what's called specularities or, or very 
strong reflections and it looks white, it looks very, very light and that's 
because the image, the sensor has saturated. 
So, this explains, now you know why, why that is happening. 
You have a discrete amount of levels, a discrete amount of values to represent 
your image, and this went above and beyond what you 
can represent with that discrete amount of values. 
So again, two discretizations, one in space and one in gray values. 
And look what happened, what's the effect? 
And you know that, because if you have a digital camera or if you see images on 
the, on the web, on the Internet, you see images have different resolution. 
So if you were to use a lot of pixels, you might see this. 
So this means that you have something which is very, very fine, 
a lot of pixels and that looks really nice. 
On the other hand, if you have something which is much more coarse, less dense, so 
you have less pixels, you're going to see something like this. 
And it's very clear to see, for example, how you know, this line is very nicely 
represented here is not so nicely represented here. 
You can see very easily this small numbers here, not so easy here. 
You look at these numbers here, they're not so clear here. 
So here we only have changed the spatial resolution. 
We have not changed the number of gray values. 
Still, let's say we have 256. So each one of these is represented with 
256 and each one of these is represented of 256, but we are not able, basically, 
to represent so fine detail with this as we are with this. 
And you can think about, once again, if I want to draw a profile. 
If you want to represent, something that has, this profile of great value and you 
actually want to discretize that. If you do it very coarse, you're not 
going to be able to detect that there is a smooth variation in the gray values. 
But if on the other hand you are able to put many more layers, 
you're going to be able to capture its value at many, many points, instead of 
just at a few, let me just use a different color, 
just as a few values if you do a coarse discretization. 
And that's why this image doesn't look as nice as this one, because this capture 
what was going on at a very coarse levels in the discretization, 
in the space discretization. Now, similar things happen if you 
basically do a very coarse discretization of the gray values. 
So let's just start, and once again, we are not changing the 
number of pixels. All these four images and the four images 
that are going to come next have exactly the same number of pixels. 
Okay? So actually, it's written here, it has 452, 
I'm going to just make it larger, times 374, 
all the images. But, the first image is displayed with 8 
bits, meaning 256 values. So I'm going to just write it, maybe I'm 
just going to say it here. The first is 256 and we actually see it 
very, very smooth and very, very nice. Here, we only use 7 bits or 128 values. 
So basically, the value 0 and 1 become 0, 2 and 3 become 2, 
4 and 5 become 4. Okay? 
The easiest way to do that is you take every value here, let's say a value, 
you divide by 2. You take basically the closest integer 
from below and you multiply it again by 2. 
Okay? So for example, if the value of this 
image was 8, you divide by 2, you take, divide by 2, basic, divide. 
Sorry. Divide by 2, 
that's 4. Okay? 
You multiply by 2, you got 8 again. 
No problem with that pixel value. Okay? 
But what happen, let's just do that here, 
what happen if you have 9? You divide by 2, 
that's 4 and 1/2. I have to take the closest integer from 
below, that's 4, 
I multiplied by 2 and this became 8. So a 9 was transformed into an 8 and 
that's basically reduces the range and reduces the quality of the image. 
This becomes even worse if we go into this region where we are actually only 
using 64 different values. So, that's equivalent basically to 
dividing by 4 then truncating and multiplying by 4. 
And that means that you're going to start talking about basically, if you have only 
64, every 4 values are represented with 1 number. 
So 0, 1, 2, 3, they all become 0. 4, 5, 6, 7, they all become 4, and so on. 
And then, you can keep going and this is only represented with 32. 
So I hope that you're starting to see that the quality is deteriorating. 
In particular, if you look at lines here, you start to see what's called false 
contours. You see these lines that they're not 
clear here. There is a smooth transition here, but 
here you see these false contours and that's created because of these jumps 
that I mentioned to you. So if you were going basically 1, 2, 3, 
4, it's actually, you are going to, when you 
taking very, very few gray values, you're going to go 0, 0, 0, 0, 4. 
You're going to jump into that value and that's because you are basically have 
much less resources to represent the different gray values. 
It's just going into an even more extreme case and we keep going down. 
Here, basically we used only 16 and now I think that you're going to be able to see 
the false countours very clearly. Here, we go basically only to 8 values. 
There's only 8 numbers to represent everything that is happening in this 
picture. Okay? And that's basically a very strong 
quantization. Here, there is basically only 4 and here 
is basically only 2. In this very extreme case, everything 
that was below 128 became 0, became black. 
Everything that was above 128 became 255, white and then you see a very, very poor 
quality data. Okay? 
So that's how the spatial quantization and the gray value, spatial sampling, 
sorry, and the gray value quantization effect you. 
The more you have of samples, the better quality it is, the more you have the 
possibility of represent many, many, many small variations. 
In gray values, the better it is, of course, the more memory it takes into 
your computer and that's going to be the subject of our compression unit. 
So now we know how images are represented in the computer. 
They represent these two-dimensional arrays. 
Great level images are represented by one. 
Color images are represented by three, red, green and blue. 
Videos are represented by multiples of them, 
let's say 30 a second, sometimes it's only 24 depending on the 
standard that, that we have, but there are multiple of those images 
and as we say, we call them frames and we know that everything is discrete. 
So we have something and quantization. An image in a computer is nothing else 
now that the two-dimensional array of discrete values. 
Thank you.