Hello and welcome to Week 4 of our Image 
and Video Processing class. For the last few weeks, we have been very 
busy learning a lot of new concepts in image and video processing. 
This week, the materials are going to be a bit short. 
I think we all deserve a shorter week about after learning so much new 
material. But also, the main reason this week is 
going to be a bit short in material is because we're going to come back to some 
important examples of image restoration later when we talk about more advanced 
topics in the class of image processing. But we still need to learn the basics of 
image restoration. And we need to understand what is image 
restoration. So, let's just go straight into that. 
But before that, just for a second, what background do you need for the topic 
of this week? If you have knowledge about signal 
processing, and Fourier analysis, there are some parts of the week that you 
might benefit a bit more. But since it happened in the previous 
weeks, the material is going to be very 
self-contained so you should be able to understand the basic concepts with very 
limited background, just some background in Linear Algebra 
mostly. but again, Fourier analysis will be very 
helpful if you know it. In particular, for the topic of Weiner 
filtering that we are going to explain in, in a few hours or actually in a few 
minutes. So, let's just explain, what is image 
restoration? So, in image restoration in contrast with 
image enhancement, we are going to try to restore the image. 
We are going to have a model for the degradation and that's what we see here. 
This is a degradation model. Basically, we start with an image. 
The image goes through some degradation which is represented by this filter H. 
Examples of degradation, and we're going to discuss them in detail later on are, 
for example, blurring, defocus. When we take a picture that's 
out of focus, that's basically a degradation. 
Another example is what's called motion blur. 
When we take pictures of something that goes very fast, we actually see that as 
kind of blurry in our picture and that's basically another type of degradation. 
After the image has gone through degradation, there is noise added to it. 
For example, the sensors in cameras have noise, the sensors in magnetic resonance 
have noise. So, there is noise added to it and this 
is what we actually observe, g. Now, from g, we need to go back to f as 
close as possible as the original f, and that's why this is called restoration. 
We're going to try to invert this degradation and noise, in order to be 
able to produce an image which is as close as possible as the original image. 
So, this restored image, we want it to be as close as possible to the original 
image. That's a goal of restoration. We didn't have that task in image 
enhancement, we just wanted it to look better, to look sharper, to benefit, 
let's say, our visual perception of the image. 
The goal now is to actually restore the image. It's kind of a different goal, 
they're related, but it's kind of a different goal, 
okay? And some of the things that we saw the previous week are actually very 
useful for image restoration as well, for example, non-local means. 
You can show that under certain conditions, restores the image. 
So, what's the model that we have here? How was g produced? 
g, basically is a result of f going through 
the degradation. So, we have f (x,y) convolution with H 
(x,y). That's a degredation model and normally, it's assumed that is a linear 
operation. So, it's a convolution. 
And we add to it the noise. And most of the image and video 
processing literature leads with what's called additive noise. 
The noise is added to the image. That's not what happens in all real 
cameras in all real acquisition devices, for example. 
There is also multiplicative noise. Very often, were basically all these, 
basically the degradation gets multiplied by some noise. 
There are other types of noise that happens, but these are some, two of the 
most common. The most common of all is additive. 
Some literature, but much more limited, addresses multiplicative noise. 
One of the effects of multiplicative noise is that the amount of noise depends 
on the signal itself. So, if the pixel value is three, we're 
multiplying three, but if the pixel value is ten, we're multiplying ten, and then 
the amount of noise much, might be much larger. 
And with additive noise, that doesn't happen. 
So, it's basically kind of image-independent denoise. 
Now, there is a way to transform multiplicative noise into additive noise 
so we can enjoy all of the literature in additive noise and also work kind of with 
a small trick applied also to multiplicative noise. 
And I wonder if you know what trick can we use to do that. 
Maybe think for a second before I give you the answer. 
So, the question is very simple. Think for yourself if you know what to do 
with multiplicative noise so you transform it to additive noise. 
And let's think and I'll give you the answer very soon, 
okay? You just spend some time thinking. 
Maybe you go to the answer very fast. Maybe you go to the answer after a while 
or maybe you are waiting for me to give you the answer. 
And the idea is very simple. If you have multiplicative noise instead 
of additive noise, let me erase here, so I have everything 
to write down. So, if you are multiplying two numbers, a 
times b, I can take the logarithmic of those, of the product of those two 
numbers. And that's equal to the logarithmic of a 
plus the log of b. So, I have trans, if b was my noise, I basically transform it 
into additive noise. So, instead of working with the image, 
I'm going to work with the logarithmic version of the image and I'm going to 
work with the logarithmic component of the noise. 
So basically, you give me the degradation g, I take the log of g, 
and I treat everything that is now from now on as it was additive noise. 
When I finish recovering it, I basically have to invert this operation. 
And that's an exponential function. So, that's one of the reasons that a lot 
of the literature has basically concentrated on additive noise because of 
this trick. Now, this trick has its own problems in 
particular because if you don't really remove all the noise, the exponent can 
make it much, much larger. But it's an important trick that 
basically makes our additive noise, restoration techniques also applicable to 
multiplicative noise with some caveats and some limitations. 
So, having now a concept of what is image restoration, 
let's just talk in the next theory about noise. 
What type of noise can we have in an image? 
Where do they come from? So, see you in the next video to deal 
with that topic. Thank you.