Let us now discuss the different types of 
noise that we can have in an image or a video. 
normally, the way we do that is we basically define what's the probability 
of the noise taking certain value. Remember, we are talking about adding 
noise to the image as we discussed in the previous video. 
So let's just start with Gaussian noise and I'm going to write down the formula 
for it. So the probability of a certain value, 
this is a function that you have probably seen a large number of times already, 
is 1 over square root of 2 pi sigma. That's basically, we are getting, 
they are the standard deviation of the noise. 
The exponent of minus c minus average. We see it here, the average of the noise, 
square, that's very important, divided by 2 sigma square, the variants of the 
noise. So this is the formula for Gaussian noise 
and we see it's function here. Now, you might ask yourself, are there 
any real systems than, let's say when I take an image, what I see is additive 
Gaussian noise? And unfortunately it's not, actually 
there's not real physical systems that produce Gaussian noise. 
So, why is this such an important noise? This is probably the most used noise 
model in most of image and video processing systems for a couple of 
reasons. One of them, because mathematically, is 
very easy to work with and we are going to see that later during this, this few 
weeks of, of image and video processing classes. 
And also, because it's a good approximation to other types of noise, 
especially when we look at small regions of the image or small region of pixel 
values. So it's very powerful and you're going to 
see most of the literature in image and video processing addressing Gaussian 
noise. And once again, here, we have the mean, 
the average, and here we have the variance of, of the 
noise. Okay? 
So that's Gaussian. Now, let's just talk about Rayliegh 
noise. In contrast with Gaussian, this actually 
does appear in real physical systems and let's just write a formula for it. 
It's a big longer, but bear with me. So the probability of a certain value. 
We're going to decompose it in two parts. One is 2 / b and there is a few 
parameters as we see here, 2 / b, 
z - a, e minus, z - a^2 as we have for the 
Gaussian, over b. Now, that's the value that the function 
assumes if z is greater or equal than a and is actually 0 if z is less or equal 
pictures, basically less than a. Okay? 
So, it looks like a complicated formula. It has this quadratic exponential, the 
same as in the Gaussian, it's multiplied by this and there's two parameters, b and 
a. And let me write down two important 
things before I describe you examples of the Rayleigh, Rayliegh noise. 
One is the average, it's not hard to compute, 
that the average of this is a plus square root of pi b over four. So that's the 
average of the signal if we have that type of noise. And the variance of the 
signal, of the sigma, of the signal I apologize, is b(4 - pi) / 4. 
Okay? So these are for you, just formulas, 
and you know, simple models of the noise. Now, this noise normally is used to 
model, for example, noise in certain areas of, of magnetic resonant imaging. 
So, in contrast with the Gaussian noise that is extremely good for us to 
basically do some math and do some nice restoration, 
but it's not really appearing in real physical devices. 
This is a good model for real physical devices. 
As I say, for example, the magnetic resonance is also used in under water 
imaging. So there are many different disciplines, 
that basically the Rayleigh is a very, very good model for, for that, for, for, 
basically the noise appearing in those devices. 
Let's just, you have the gamma noise here, the formula. 
Let's just talk about exponential noise. In the exponential noise, so once again, 
I just start by writing the formula. The probability of z of basically a 
certain value of the noise is once again, and this is going to be very important in 
a second, e to the, is a, 
e to the minus az when z is positive, 0 when z is negative. 
So, basically, the Rayleigh noise was nonsymmetric, 
but the exponential, basically, there was no noise. 
Basically, there is no negative values of, of noise and that's a very important 
property. Once again, 
the average, not hard to compute, is 1 / a, 
and then sigma square is 1 / a^2. And you can have different numbers here 
depending on your scaling, a is just a scaling. 
So this is the exponential noise. Another popular noise, but I'm going to 
discuss the, when, can we see this exponential noise? 
Actually, when I describe next the uniform noise. 
So let me just first write the formulas for the uniform noise, ask you a couple 
of questions about that, and then explain worries that we actually see this type 
of, of noise. So let's just write the forumula for the uniform noise, the 
uniform noise is basically saying that there is noise of exactly the same value 
between these two. No noise outside and once you are inside, all the noise has 
basically is uniform, as the, as the name says. So the probability is once again 1 
/ b-a if you are in this interval. So basically, a less wqual than c, less 
equal than b. 0 if you're outside of the interval. 
So I'm going to write other. Basically, you're outside of the 
interval. So, uniform inside the interval 0 outside 
of the interval. So let me ask you a question. 
What's the average for this noise? So look at this picture or if you want, 
do the math on the side and tell me, what's the average of this noise. 
Okay? I'm going to give you, in the quiz, a 
number of possibilities. And I'm going to respond to that in just 
one second. So what's the average here? 
Very easy to compute. The average here is a + b / 2. 
So that's the average. So if I'm having uniform noise, that's 
the average of my noise. Okay? 
And how much is sigma squared? You're going to have that as one of your 
homework, as one of your quizzes for, for week 4. Now, 
when do we see this type of noise? For example, this is a very good model. 
Actually, both of them are good models for quantization noise. 
Okay? So, if you remember, in the, mostly in 
the first week, but also in the second week, when we discussed image 
compression, we talked about quantization. And the basic idea in 
quantization is that we had a range of values and we represented it by a 
quantized value, let's say, the point in the middle. 
So when you actually obtain this value, you actually represent it with a point in 
the middle, so you're making this noise. 
If you get this value, you are making this noise. 
And that type of noise very often is modeled as uniform noise inside this 
interval. There's no noise outside that interval, 
because when you're quantizing, you define an interval, 
and then you define, basically, the representative of that interval. 
So uniform noise is a model for quantization noise and that teaches us 
something new, a new concept. Noise sometimes comes from the device. 
Let's say, the sensors in our cameras. Noise, sometimes comes because of an 
operation that we do to images. And beautiful noise is a good model to 
this quantization operation. Exponential noise sometimes is also used 
as a good model for this quantisation, but it's also the type of noise or error 
when we do predictive coding. Remember, in predictive coding, when 
we're trying to predict a pixel, let's say, from it's surrounding pixels. 
So, what's the value of this pixel if I tell you all this? 
That's what we did for predictive coding. The error of that prediction is normally 
more than as an exponential error or an exponential noise. 
For example, the JPEG or less standard, which is basically used in the Mars Rover 
uses this model for the error of the predictive column. 
So very interesting these are really, really useful, before I go to this we see 
these are useful to model for example operations that we do in images. 
This is very useful to model real sensor noise, this is a very useful mathematical 
model to develop algorithms, so each one of them has it's own features and values. 
Lastly, I want to talk about impulse noise and I can write down the formulas 
for these. But let me explain it with a picture, 
it's much easier. The basic idea on, on, on these type of 
noise, which is also called salt and pepper noise, is that with certain 
probability you change the pixel completely to a new value. 
And with certain other probability, you change it to a different value. 
For example, we start that I go over the image and with certain probability I'd 
change the pixel, let's say to white, and with other probability I change the 
pixel, let's say to black and that's why it's called salt and pepper. 
If I changed it to white that's called salt, and if I changed it to black, 
that's called pepper. So we go over the image and we change 
pixels with a given probability. It's very different than these types of 
noise. The Gaussian noise will affect every 
pixel in the image. The salt and pepper will affect some 
more, some not, but when it effects, it effects all of them in the same, in the 
same fashion. Turns them either white or turns them 
black with a different probabilities, so it's a different characteristic. 
You can think about this noise, for example, a noise to model when the 
probability is very low, actually sensors defect. 
If one part one pixel in your camera is actually burn for example you don't get 
signal there. So that's kind of a pepper noise, it 
might be black so with, hopefully, very low probability, if your camera is a good 
camera, you get a pixel which is black and that's a pepper noise. 
Okay? So these are very, very useful noise that 
we can see. Now, what we're going to see next is how 
do we estimate this types of noise that's going to be very important. 
It's going to be the topic of one of the forthcoming videos. 
See you next. Thank you.