Hello, and welcome back. 
We are going to benefit once again from MATLAB to learn a few of the examples of 
different types of noise that we have learned in the previous video. 
Let us, first of all, as we already know how to do that, load an image. 
This is one other image that comes with a MATLAB packet. 
This in particular is a color image RGB. So we are going to first transform it 
into a black and white image. We're basically only going to be paying 
attention to the luminance component of the image. 
That's this operation that we see here. Then we're going to add Gaussian noise, 
that's what we see here. So Gaussian means we are going to add 
Gaussian noise to this image and that Gaussian noise is going to have a 
variance of 2. Then we're going to add salt and pepper 
noise with 2%,. meaning 2% of the pixels in the image I 
are going to be changed to either black or white, according to the definition of, 
of salt and pepper noise. And then we are actually going to add 20% 
of salt and pepper noise. So that's this image. 
Now, what we are going to do, is we are going to load all the images, 
the original color image, the black and white version of that image, 
the Gaussian noise, the 2% salt and pepper noise, and the 20% salt and pepper 
noise. So let's just see what happens. 
Once again, we are basically loading all the images. 
Now, I'm going to move them so we can look at them better, 
but I think you managed to see some of that already. 
So there's a lot of images here. And, let's see first the original image. 
This is the RGB, the color of image that we loaded first. 
I'm going to remove that so we don't have so many images on the screen. 
Here is the original image. Here is the result of finding the 
Gaussian noise. The first observation you can see is 
basically there is noise all around the image. 
So, this is Gaussian noise. Every pixel has some noise according to 
the Gaussian distribution. Contrary to that, we see here that 2% 
salt and pepper noise. Some of the pixels of the image have been 
affected, only 2% of them. Now, once they are affected, they become 
either completely white or completely black as we see that here. 
Finally, we see what happens when we have 20% of 
noise. So you see a lot of pixels that basically 
became either black or white. Once again, compared to only 2%, and 
compared to the Gaussian noise, that is affecting all the pixels. And finally, 
then just look again at this nice original image. 
So these are different types of noise, Gaussian noise and salt and pepper noise, 
and basically different densities of noise for salt and pepper. 
We could also have played with different variances for the Gaussian noise, but I 
think that this is sufficient to illustrate the concept of these types of 
noise. Thank you very much and see you in the 
next video.