Now that we are experts on noise, let's 
see what happens to the histogram of an image when you add noise to it. 
For that, we are going to use a very simple example. 
We see here an image that has only three regions and then only three values. 
If we were to draw the histogram of this image, we will see a different heights 
but we actually see on the three, basically, delta functions. 
One that stands for the black region, one that stands for the gray region, and 
one that stands for this lighter region and the height of these depends on the 
area of each one of the regions. So, 
when we add noise, with each one of these distribution, how is this histogram going 
to change? It's going to change from this three 
delta function to something. let's see what happens. 
So, here we see three examples already. In the first example, we took the 
original image and we added Gaussian noise. 
This the type of the probability distribution of the noise. 
And we actually see it reflected here. It's very clearly, they are kind of three 
Gaussian distributions. This is going to be very important, it's 
going to help us to estimate the noise, if we are only given the image, as we are 
going to see in the next video. Here, we see a shape which is very 
similar to the shape of their Rayleigh noise. 
It's kind of tilted and then it goes down almost like a Gaussian, slightly 
different. So clearly, the shapes here are very 
different. For example, this is kind of symmetric. 
This is not. Remember, these are probability 
distributional functions for the noise so we are not expecting to see a perfect 
function. This all in probability. 
And here, we see the gamma noise. Once again, a shape very similar around 
each one of the pixel values, a shape that is very similar to the 
actual probability distribution function. So, these are the three of them. 
They just continue seeing some additional examples. 
I'm going to ask you now a question. Which noise do you think we added here to 
the original image? So, this is how the, basically, the image 
looks after we add the noise. Which one of these six do you think we 
have added here? Please give me an answer to that. 
I think it's not very hard to get to the answer if we just compare the shapes. 
Once again, remember, if we only had the original image, we have kind of three 
delta functions with different heights representing the black, the gray, and the 
white regions. And now, we see very clearly, exponential 
functions. So, it was these noise, 
okay? We cannot see that from the image itself. 
It's very hard to see. Is this Gaussian, is this exponential, is 
this Rayleigh? You have to really be trained to observe 
that just from the image. But it's much easier from the histogram. 
So now, that we are really experts I'm going to ask you again, what's the noise 
here? Please give me an answer. 
Just think for a second, and give me an answer. 
Once again, this was the original histogram and now, we actually see kind 
of uniform distributions. So, we see clearly that this is the 
noise. It's basically around the area of the 
original histogram with the flat regions. So, this is a type of noise. 
Now, please note that in this image, the same type of noise was added all around 
the image. Otherwise, for example, if we add 
Gaussian noise inside this region and uniform noise to everything else, we will 
see actually a Gaussian here and uniform in the other two. 
So, we will see combinations of these distributions. 
Finally, this is the salt and pepper. Salt and pepper actually is not hard, in 
general, to recognize from the original image. 
We see the black dots or the white dots. But I also want to illustrate that in the 
histogram. The histogram stays with kind of delta 
functions but, of course, if there was no black there would be a new delta function 
of black, or if there was black it would be a 
larger basically a taller delta function there and the same for y. 
So, we can see from the histograms what actually happens sometimes. 
And therefore, we can use the histograms to estimate the type of noise and to 
estimate the parameters of the noise as we're going to see in the next video. 
Thank you.