No and welcome back. 
Let us see the wiener filter in action once again using MATHLAB. 
As we have done before we start by loading an image. 
This is the same image we have seen before, this Saturn image, remember that 
was a color image. So we're going to transform it into black 
and white image, the same operation as we did before. 
Then we're going to add Gaussian noise, as we see here, we have seen this before 
when we were showing the different types of noise and we see here the variance. 
Now, are go and apply the wiener filter. This is the operation that applies the 
wiener filter to this image that we have just basically created by adding Gaussian 
noise. Now before I show you the result of the 
Wiener filter I want to compare that with a different filter. 
Basically, I want to compare it with a local averaging. 
For that I'm creating a disk of radius ten and then basically filtering the 
noise image with that disk. This is basically, 
this operation is basically computing the local average, 
weka window of radius ten. Don't worry about this, 
this is just a, what, is telling MATHLAB what to do at the boundary conditions. 
So basically, we're going to have, the original image, we're going to have the 
noisy image, we're going to have the blurry image, local averaging, and we're 
going to have the result of Wiener filtering. 
So let's see the results. Once again we're loading all the images. 
And this will help us to see how nice wiener filtering can work. 
we see again the original image, that we have seen in the past. 
This is the noisy image. This is the result of Wiener filtering. 
And this is the result of blurring, or local averaging. 
So see how nicely Wiener filtering has been able to recover. 
Restore a lot of the original image, starting from this noisy image. 
And it has done a much better job than the local averaging. 
Let me move the image closer, and we can see the difference. 
This is clearly a much sharper image than what we obtained knowing basically, doing 
the local averaging. So wiener as we see can do a fantastic 
job when we provide some information. And in this case, actually, the wiener is 
estimating the information. So this is the, 
basically the implementation that we saw at the end of the previous video, the 
simplest implementation of the wiener filtering and still able to do a great 
job in restoring the image, starting from this noisy image. 
Then we once again, this was the original, the noisy of course the wiener 
filter doesn't know this original images starts from this noisy image and still 
operating that blurry version of it, creates a really sharp version. 
So it's doing a really, really good job. And we can see much better than the local 
averaging that blurs. So by this we conclude that themma on the 
wiener victory. Thank you very much.