Hello, and welcome to week three of our 
class on image and video processing. What you're seeing right now is me in a 
relatively dark room. You can probably see the Duke Chapel 
behind me but you can't see details, for example, the color of the shirt I'm 
wearing. Or, if you were to look at my desk, it's 
basically very dark, and you can't see much. 
What happen when we take an image like this? 
What happen when we have a video that is very dark? 
That happens us all the time, we take a picture at night. 
Doesn't have the lighting that we want. It's too dark or too bright, 
sometimes too noisy. What we are going to do during this week 
is to learn how to improve those images. How to enhance those images. 
We're going to start with very simple manipulations. 
That will basically help us to improve the contrast, remove the noise. 
And we're going to go towards the end of the week to more advanced techniques. 
Which are basically leading to state of the art approaches today. 
And we're going to come back to some these towards the end of the class to 
basically week seven, week eight, to really, really advance techniques for 
image enhancement. During this week and during the following 
weeks we're also going to do online and real time demos so I'm going to basically 
teach you some of the material and then we're going to run some different 
software platforms to basically do some of these operations. 
Right now on my PC, and you are going to see them, in practice, how they are 
working. We're also going to introduce some online 
video quizzes so, basically I'm going to pause for a second and you're going to be 
able to think about a question that I will post to you. 
That won't basically affect your, your certificate at the end but it's just to 
have you think for a while before I give you the answer to the question, like in 
any regular class that I will basically pause to have the students think for a 
minute. Before we continue let me turn on the 
lights so I can continue this and write. And explain to you the basic principles 
of image enhancement and contrast enhancement and image you're now seeing. 
So bear with me for a second. I'm going to turn on my lights and we 
will be right back. So now I'm turning the lights on. 
So you can see. A bit of the details. 
you can't see much in the background anymore but you can see what's in the 
room. And what I'm going to show you is how we 
turn the lights on, digitally, in the computer. 
So you have taken your image. You can now go back to SIM. 
I want to turn the lights on with image processing and video processing software 
so let's start doing that. And we basically are going to start from 
very simple operations, which are histogram modifications, or pointwise 
operations. So, the basic idea is illustrated in this 
figure. Every pixel of the image, 
it's going to change it's own value, following certain function. 
So. The pixel here will move to a new image 
where basically it changed its value but it will change its value only based on 
its own value right now. It's not going to be influenced by 
anything that's happening in any other part of the image. 
That's the first part of this week three. We're going to see later how we basically 
influence the pixel value by other things that are happening in the image. 
But to start, very simple, what's called point-wise operations. 
There's a certain pixel value in, in the input, a certain pixel value in the 
output. Similarly here. 
For example, what's happening here is that everybody up to pixel value K. 
Becomes zero, everybody above K becomes one or the maximum value. 
In the image. So this is basically a thresh holding 
operation. So, what we need to specify, is it one 
dimensional function, that translates the input to the output. 
And, let's just see, a few examples of that. 
So here we see a few illustrations of this. 
Several of these operations, inverse log. Of course lets start from the identity. 
The input is identical to the output. So basically this is the identity. 
If we basically mark the output as S. An entity is S = R. 
The output is identical to the input. We have done nothing to the image. 
We also have a log operation. For example the output is some constant 
times the log of the input, and we normally are going to add let's say 1. 
Because if the input is 0, we cannot take the logarithmic of zero. 
So we do we this. So that's an hour operation. 
Whatever is the grade value of the input we transform it to the output. 
There is also the inverse, which is written here. 
And I want to, I want for you to think for a second, what will be basically the 
function that will represent the inverse. Considering that our image goes from 0 to 
L. So the minimal value is 0, the maximum 
value is L. While would be the function, basically I 
want to write S. As a function of r. 
Why would be that function that will basically do the negation of the image. 
The maximal value of the input will become zero. 
And the minimal value of the input meaning zero would become L. 
So let's just think for a second and it's a very simple exercise just to illustrate 
how simple. And as we are going to see in a second, 
how powerful at the same time, these type of operations are. 
So, we know that, basically, I ask you how to, basically, construct this 
function? And it's very simple. 
We want the output to be the inverse. of the input, so S equal L, the maximum 
value minus R. So when R is L, S becomes zero because 
its L minus L. When R is zero, then basically S become 
L, which is the maximum. So, a very, very simple operation that 
just involves our great values. And note, that all what occur in all of 
these operations, is the actual great value. 
I'm not asking where's the pixel located in the image? 
I'm just asking what's the pixel value? What's the great value of that image? 
So, here is one example of this. Basically this function that we just 
wrote S equal L minus R is basically taking every pixel and doing the 
inversion so it's the negative image and some of the things that we see is that is 
basically easier for us to. See just visually some of the things in 
the negative image than it is. In that original image. 
And why is this? Remember early on we talk about the 
properties of the visual system that there are certain contrast that we 
understand better. That we perceive better at different 
levels of the background. And we saw that there are some contrasts 
that are perceived better when we are in the dark regions. 
Some contrasts are perceived differently when we are in the light regions. 
So, this inversion, basically, might help us to perceive things that are difficult 
to notice in the original image. Very simple illustration. 
One other important thing of these type of operations is, I can go back. 
So, if I start from here, I have not destroyed the information. 
I can simply go back and reverse this operation, that's not always possible as 
we're going to see later this week. But, for this particular operation that 
is doable. Another extremely important operation is 
basically an exponential function, and I'm going to write it here S, the output 
is going to be a constant, the input, to some exponent, gamma, and the basic idea 
here is that depending on, gamma in particular we get different functions, 
that transforms the input, to the output, and this is very often called gamma 
correction. And this actually is very popular. 
In monitors, because of some properties of the monitor, if you don't do a gamma 
correction to your image, your image is going to look relatively dark. 
So, if this is. My image its going to look dark, and it's 
going be hard to perceive exactly the details. 
And that's because of the properties of the monitor. 
So sometimes before you send the image to the display to the monitor you do what's 
called a gamma correction. So you gamma correct the image, and then 
you basically send it to the display. And what's basically the gamma correction 
is doing is inverting this. Darkening operation that happens due to 
some properties in the monitor. So it's a very useful, very common 
operation. Basically shows up. 
In virtually every monitor there is a gamma correction before the image is 
basically display. But gamma correction or basically this 
exponential function is very useful in general to basically kind of stretch if 
you need the pixel values. Remember we have instagrams and. 
Which are the distributions of the pixels. 
And, for example, if we look at this image it looks like most of the pixels 
are concentrated on the bright values. So, if we were to draw, and we're going 
to do. This. 
This event. Very often, basically starting, in the 
next in the next video, but allowed in this way. 
So, probably, if we were to plug the distribution of the pixel values of this 
image, there would occupy a lot, this region. 
Because we look like the image is basically too much of the high values, 
very bright. So, with gamma corrections, we can manage 
to actually stretch this histogram and this are just different values, but I 
think the simplest is to just look at this one. 
And we see that we have basically a nicer image it looks better than this image 
first of all. But it also helps us to better understand 
some of the details and I hope that you can still in your own monitor that it's 
doing its own gamma correction. Then you can actually perceive better, 
details here, details here, and in different regions in the image. 
And sometimes, it might become too much, so you might do a different type of 
gamma. So you might say oh, this region 
actually, I'm not. ... 
Perceiving a lot of the details. So maybe I should a different value of 
gamma as illustrated here. This are researches of different values 
of gamma. And you could actually do some of these 
operations not in the whole image but in some regions of the image. 
So you can invert only some region of the image. 
You can do a gamma correction or an exponential function in only some regions 
of the image. So you don't have to do them every place. 
You can do them locally. So that's. 
A very simple operation, that immediately gives us a much nicer perception of the 
image. Remember the video, as we started this 
video, was very dark. That means that the distribution, 
basically peaks of values. Were around here. 
If this is the histogram distribution and this kind of operation help us to stretch 
to basically use better the resources that we have in the display to use the 
whole spectrum of values from 0 to 255 instead of just using the dark part of 
the values or only the bright part of the values. 
Again a very, very simple operation. here there is a lot of art in designing 
of these operations but with experience we understand what we need to do. 
Here is yet in our example of the stretching of the pixel values. 
So once again this is the input, this is R, this is S, this is the output. 
So if your pixel values are between this point and this point not a lot is 
happening. Okay. 
So this is going to be the original image. 
Pixels values that are relatively dark, not a lot is going to happen to it, then. 
Pixels that are relatively bright. Not a lot is going to happen to them but 
pickus value in between are going to be stretch basically I'm going to, this has 
slope much larger than one. If the slope was one, nothing will happen 
to them. If the slope is less than one, it would 
be basic contracted. If the slope is larger than one, it would 
be stretched. Okay? 
So if we have slope larger than one, zero stays zero. 
But one basically goes up to the slope and gets stretched. 
And then we see what happened. This is the retaliament because the 
mid-range of the pixel values gets stretched. 
All of a sudden, I can see details that I couldn't see before. 
Look at the points here are extremely difficult to notice, but here I can see 
that actually there were spots in this image. 
And then if you wish you can threshold that image and that's whats happened here 
so we can distinguish the different regions. 
But notice the difference of going from here to here, very hard to understand. 
What's happening here? Much nicer looking image here, not only 
much nicer looking, but I can also see the details in the image, and that's very 
important for image analysis, and I can do simple things like thresholding. 
So everything that's happened here is extremely, extremely simple operations. 
By the way, this is this. Going from here to here, basically, is 
also. A very simple operation. 
We actually saw it before. It's an operation of this tie. 
Okay? So, this is S, this is R. 
The sum of the pixel values go to zero if they are below this particular value. 
And if they are above, they go to the maximal value that they can display in 
the image. So very simple operation can do drastic 
transformations in the image. And very useful transformations in the 
image. A couple of additional examples, here. 
We have, it's kind of a thresh hold, but in the mid range. 
So, basically we say, okay, anybody that goes from zero to A, I want it to be very 
low. Everybody that is above B, I wand it to 
be very low, and everybody in between, I want it to be very high. 
And, this is another example. Basically everybody between zero and 
eight, don't touch. Everybody above B, don't touch. 
Everybody between A and B make it very, very bright, or I could say, make it 
very, very dark, okay? So let's assume that you have information 
that the pixel values of your region of interest are between A and B and you want 
them to be highlighted in the image, then you do this type of operation or this 
type of operation. Let's just see the effects of that in the 
next slide. This is the original image here. 
And this is the first operation, where we basically take a wrench of the image, and 
that wrench of the image we'll make very brighter. 
Very bright, everything else, we'll make very dark. 
And this is another example. This is the second example where we take 
a region of the image. And we only change that region of the 
image. Everything else basically stays the same. 
Of course, you need information. What's the region that I care of. 
And that comes, as I say, from experience. 
Offer information about the sin that you're capturing. 
In this case. Basically, information about the biology 
and what kind of pixel values. This region of the image appears. 
And that's a region that I'm going to basically say that I need to make it 
brighter or I to make it darker and similarly here. 
The, the goal of this is to illustrate how very, very simple operations can get 
us basically what we want. Can get us to improve the visual 
appearance of the images, going from very dark or very bright to very uniform and 
nice looking images or can help us to basically highlight the region of 
interest. If you want to do the analysis of this 
region in the image, maybe it's nice to basically make everything as dark. 
So I can concentrate my attention here. But maybe you say, yes. 
But I lost details, because you made everything white. 
You say, okay. Then let's do something else. 
Let's just take the whole. Background, basically, and make it zero. 
But let's not change this range of values. 
And this is the type of operation that appears here. 
We make everything that we don't like just very dark or very bright. 
But everything we care, we leave untouched. 
And then we can actually. Concentrate our visual observation with 
concentrate only on that region. So these are very simple operations. 
In the next video we're going to start talking about histogram equalization but 
before that, let's just make a short video that basically run some of these 
operations in real time so we can see how simple they are and we can actually 
observe how they are working on our images. 
So see you on the next video. Thank you.