Hello and welcome back. 
We are going to be using once again, MATLAB to illustrate what we just learned 
about answer masking, and a few additional operations. 
So, let's go into that. First we're going to read an image, one 
of the images that come with the matter package. 
Then we're going to add, salt and pepper noise. 
We see here point zero nine meaning, that about 9% of the pixels in the image, are 
going to be contaminated by salt, white, or pepper, meaning black noise. 
After that, we're going to apply to the noisy image, medium filtering, and we see 
that operation here. And then we're going to load, the 
original image. The noisy image, the medium filter 
result, meaning the denoised image. The difference between these two as one 
possibility of [INAUDIBLE] masking and also a stretch histogram. 
And we're going to see and discuss each one of these more. 
So let's just first load all the five images and see what happens. 
I'm going to move them around so we can look at all of them at once. 
So, this is once again, we see here first the 
original image. Then we see the salt and pepper noise. 
When the background is white, we can see the black dots, basically the pepper. 
When the background is dark, when the background is dark, we can see the white 
dots, the salt. Here we see the result of applying a 
three by three medium filter to this image. 
And we see that we managed to clean the noise. 
And we managed to clean pretty much the whole image. 
Of course, we have some blurring not a lot, but some blurring produced by the 
medium filter. So it's not exactly the original image. 
It's kind of a blurred version of it. Which means that if we take now the 
difference between these two images, we're going to get this, which is mostly 
the edges the basically sharp boundaries in this image. 
This image is a bit too dark and therefore what we do as we know we can 
stretch the histogram and in this case we just square the pixel values and by that 
we are stretching the histogram and we see here the results. 
So here is basically, the difference between the original, the medium filter 
of the noise filter, that's that and we have stretching. 
Now, observe that we don't see edges, because 
of the noise. Those would be superios edges, won't be 
real edges in the original image. And that basically happens because we 
have applied a medium filter before producing these difference. 
And that's actually great, because the medium filter manages to get rid of the 
noise. And therefore managed to get rid of the 
possibility of having superious edges. So in this example, we see a lot of the 
things that we have learned. We see salt and pepper noise, 
result of medium filter. The difference producing the most 
important edges and an histogram stretching to be able to observe those 
edges in a much nicer way. Thank you very much, and see you in the 
next video.