We are now inside a MATLAB environment. 
And we are going to be using MATLAB to illustrate some of these picture 
modification, algorithm we just described and also some those are we are going to 
see in the next video. MATLAB is a great software to do image 
processing. Of course, you don't need to have MATLAB 
to understand what I'm, going to show you next or you don't need to know how to 
program in MATLAB. It's very intuitive and it's going to be 
very simple for us to understand the commands that I'm going to do. 
The first command, is basically reading an image. 
As we see here, we are reading the image. The next command is going to have a 
number of steps, which I'm going to show you next. 
I'm going to first, create a figure and show the image in that figure. 
Then I create a second figure, and I'm going to show you the histogram of that 
image. And I'm going to keep creating figures to 
illustrate the other operations, I want to show you. 
One of them is going to be the inversion of that image, 
255 minus I. And the last thing I want to show you is 
the histogram of that image. You can start thinking, how the histogram 
of the inversion compares to the histogram of the original image. 
Let's see that., let's just show all those figures, one 
after the other, I'm going to move them, so it makes it easier for us to observe 
those images, those figures. And I'm going to tell you what each one 
of them is. So here is the original image. 
And this is its histogram. And we see the image is pretty dark, so 
we see a large concentration of dark values. 
Here is the inversion of the image. We basically have flip all of image 
values. And look what happened to the histogram. 
The histogram also has flip. Basically, what was here, 
it moved to here as we have expected because we are just flipping the pixels 
we are not making any other change but flipping the pixel values. 
So it's a very simple operation and we see what's happening to the histogram. 
Let's now see another operation that we are going to describe in detail in the 
next video. And it's going to be an what's called 
histogram equalization. I'm going to look for the command to do 
the histogram equalization and to show that to you. 
And that's going to be here. Once again, I'm going to show you the 
image and its histogram as before. Now I'm going to show you the equalized 
image and I'm going to illustrate what that means and also the histogram. 
So again we're going to have four figures. 
And, I think that you are starting to guess what's happening here. 
As before, we have the original image, it's historgram We see the histogram very 
concentrated on the left. Here we have the result what's called 
histogram equalization. What we are trying to do here is to make 
this histogram looks more uniform. Look at here, how instead of being 
concentrated in the low values, showing that this is a very dark image. 
We spread the pixel's values so there is better exploitation of all the gamut of 
values from zero to 256. Instead of here that there was almost no 
pixels with this value. That is to come equalization help us to 
see details that we couldn't see before like this region of the tire. 
So it's a very powerful operation to be able to basically see details in the 
image that because of the bad use of the spectrum of grey values we couldn't see 
before. What we're going to see next is how we 
actually mathematically do this operation. 
So, see you in the next video.