Hello and welcome back. 
Now that we know, the underlying framework of non-vocal means, let's just 
demo it in real time. Non-local means denoising works using the 
resources in the image processing online journal. 
This is a website that I have provided a link in their webpage for this class, is 
a journal that has a lot of online algorithms for image processing. 
And I strongly suggest that you visit it if you want to play with a lot of the 
state of the art in image processing. So the journal has first a full 
description of the algorithm. It has also code that you can download and use in 
your own computer, but also has an online demo and that's what we are going to do 
next. You can upload your own images, or you 
can basically use the images already available on the website, just to 
illustrate and to help you understand the algorithm better. 
So let's just pick this image, for example. 
And it's here. And we're going to run the algorithm. 
We're going to add some noise to the image to see how non-local means will 
de-noise that, and we're going to ask you to run. 
So, now it's running, we see this. This algorithm can be made to run very 
fast, but now it's running on a server and it's running on an implementation 
that is not optimized for that. But here we have the result. 
So we see, let's just illustrate the details. 
We see here is the noisy image. Basically, the original image with the 
other noise, and now we see the de-noised image. 
Again, this is the noisy image, this is the de-noised image, and this is the 
original. So we see that there are differences, but 
certainly the de-noised image is much better than the noisy image. 
Now, we can actually see the difference between the de-noised image and the 
original image. Once again, this is the noisy image, 
the de-noised image, the original image, and the difference. 
They just run with a different image. So let's just select a new input here, 
and we can pick a different image, for example, these dice. 
And we can pick a different level of noise, and just put a lot of noise to see 
what happens here, and then let's just run it. 
Once again, while this is running, remember, the goal of non-local means is 
to look for regions, say, okay, if I want to de-noise this 
region, I'm going to look for similar regions around and average them. 
The larger the noise, the more the algorithm will take, because it's goign 
to try to average more and more patches to help us reduce the noise, the noise 
even further. So here is, again, the noisy image the 
algorithm has finished. This is the noisy. 
This is the de-noised image. This is the original, 
and this is the difference. So we think it has done a very, very good 
job in de-noising this image. Noisy? 
De-noise. Noisy, de-noise. 
Original image and the difference. This image doesn't have a lot of texture. 
And that's why these type of algorithms work really, really, well. 
There, when there is a lot of texture, the algorithm still works very well, 
but for every denoise image denoising algorithm, dealing with texture is a bit 
more difficult. So let's just conclude this by showing 
this once again. Noisy, de-noise, original, and 
difference. And once again, you can just go into the 
ipo.im website and play with this or any other algorithm that is available there, 
and you can upload your own images and see how it works. 
Thank you, and see you in the next video.