Coming back to local filters, there's 
another extremely important and extremely appropriate local filter which is called 
a median filter, which we are going to describe next. 
And it's a great filter because it doesn't really blur edges. 
And although it's a very classical filter, it's still very useful today. 
So, let's observe it. Before we actually describe it, let's see 
what happens with a real image. We have here an image, that has been 
contaminated with what's called salt and pepper noise. 
Next week, we're actually going to describe different models of noise a bit 
better, but salt and pepper, it's just noise that basically is very strong 
noise, individually added at different pixels. 
We see it here. This is the result of the local mean 
filter. What we have seen in the previous videos, 
just local averaging, in this case, a three by three. 
You might be able to observe there is some reduction of noise but not really 
too much reduction of noise. Here, on the other hand, is the result of 
a three by three median filter and we see a great result. 
We don't see blurring. we actually see that a lot of the noise 
has been reduced. We could reduce much more noise with a 
local mean filter, a local average. If we go beyond three by three, we might 
go five by five, nine by nine. Remember, by averaging we are reducing 
the noise by square of the number of pixels that we are averaging as we saw in 
the previous videos. But if we enlarge the neighborhood, we 
also saw that we are going to start to blur a lot of the details. 
On the other hand, keeping a three by three neighborhood 
would still get extremely good denoising with the median filter. 
So, what's the median filter? Very simple. 
What we do, is we actually take, let's say, if we are working in a three by 
three neighborhood, we basically order the pixels so we 
basically order them from the smallest to the largest and we pick the one in the 
middle, okay? 
So, we start putting all the pixels in order, we pick the one in the middle. 
This is an operation we actually learn in elementary school. 
And it's an extremely powerful, replace it by the one in the middle. 
So, for example, if you have pixels which look like this and one of the pixels is 
very noisy, when you order them, 
this one is going to be replaced by one of these values that are all equal so 
it's going to be replaced, it's going to go down, 
okay? So, the noise is clean. 
Completely clean, without blurring as we have seen for Gaussian filtering or for 
mean filtering. It's a very, very simple filter. 
You order, and you pick the one in the middle. 
You order from the smallest to the largest, and you pick the one in the 
middle. And then, you move to the next window. 
So, you basically take a three by three window, then you move to the next window, 
the next window, the next window. And you get this extremely simple filter, 
the median filter. Before I show you additional examples of 
the median filter in real time, we're going to actual run MatLab to do that. 
Let me just give you one interesting property of the median filter. 
We saw in a couple of views ago that the average filter is reducing this, a minus 
ai squared. We say the average is the value of a that reduces, that minimizes 
this and I'm summing over all the pixels. So, I'm going to ask you a question, can 
we represent the median filtering in a form like this? 
A different function maybe. Some of certain function of a minus ai, 
can we do that? Just think for a while, and tell me yes 
or no, if you know the answer of that. So, what's the answer to this question? 
Very interesting. This is the mean. 
The value of a that minimizes the square error is the mean. 
What's the median? The median is the value that minimizes 
the absolute. There's no square here. 
It's just the absolute difference. It's extremely interesting that by 
replacing this square by basically nothing, just absolute value, we get the 
median. Once again, you can prove this. 
It's a bit more of a difficult proof, because when we discuss how to prove 
this, we say, just take derivatives, make the derivative equal to zero, and you're 
going to find that a is the average of all the ai's. 
Here, you're not allowed to take derivative, because at zero, the absolute 
value cannot have a, doesn't have a derivative. 
So, the proof is a bit more delicate. But I'm sure that you can do it as a 
bonus exercise. Don't worry too much about that for now. 
You can believe me, that if you don't want to do the proof by yourself, 
that the result of minimizing this is the median filter. 
An extremely interesting operation. For those that are familiar with the area 
of robot statistics, this is a square error, which is not very 
robust, and that's why it's blurring. This is a much more robust error. 
And that's why it's able to completely eliminate noise, like salt and pepper 
noise, without blurring the rest of the image. 
The last interesting property I want to mention about the median is in the 
average, the result doesn't have to be one of the pixels. 
So, for example, if you're averaging one and two, you get 1.5. 
It's not one, it's not two, okay? 
When you're averaging, let's say, a three by, 
when you're completing the average of a three by three and you're replacing the 
middle pixel by the average, you might be replacing the pixel by a value that 
doesn't show up, not in the three by three window, 
maybe not even in the whole image. Once again, the average between, of one 
and two is 1.5, a new value. 
On the other hand, when you're doing the median filtering, you're always replacing 
by one of the values that already exist in the three by three window. 
So, you're not producing new pixel values. 
And that's part of what's happening here. And that's a very interesting property by 
itself. There is no novelty. 
There is no new values. Only those that are already familiar in 
the neighborhood of the pixel that you are replacing the pixel with the median. 
Now, now, that we know about the median, now 
that we know some of the interesting properties of the median, 
let's just see a few additional examples of the median filter in action. 
Let's see that in the next video. Thank you.